src/content/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/getting-started/types-synthetic-monitors.mdx, before:

---
title: Types of synthetic monitors
tags:
  - Synthetics
  - Synthetic monitoring
  - Getting started
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: Types of monitors available for synthetic monitoring in New Relic.
redirects:
  - /docs/alerts/availability-report
  - /docs/alert-policies/availability-report
  - /docs/reports/availability-report
  - /docs/alerts/availability-monitoring
  - /docs/features/availability-monitoring-faq
  - /docs/alerts/availability-monitoring-faq
  - /docs/alert-policies/availability-monitoring
  - /docs/alerts/alert-policies/downtime-alerts/availability-monitoring
  - /docs/alert-policies/troubleshooting-downtime-alerts
  - /docs/alerts/alert-policies/downtime-alerts
  - /docs/alerts/availability-monitor-settings
  - /node/3471
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/managing-notification-channels/availability-monitoring-legacy
  - /docs/apm/reports/other-performance-analysis/availability-report
  - /node/3266
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/types-synthetics-monitors
---

You can proactively monitor your website or API endpoints with [synthetic](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-synthetics) monitors. Depending on the type of monitor, you can:

* [Add and edit monitors](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/add-edit-monitors).
* Use the [Synthetics REST API](/docs/apis/synthetics-rest-api/monitor-examples/manage-synthetics-monitors-rest-api) to manage monitors.
* Set up monitors from [specific locations or for private servers](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/private-locations/private-locations-overview-monitor-internal-sites-add-new-locations).

You can also use the [host not reporting](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/configuration/create-infrastructure-host-not-reporting-condition) feature in [infrastructure monitoring](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-infrastructure). This allows you to take advantage of enhanced monitoring options and be notified when New Relic has stopped receiving data from your hosts.

## Types of monitors [#types-monitors]

These are the seven types of synthetic monitors:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        Type of synthetic monitor
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Broken links monitor
      </td>

      <td>
        Provide a url and this monitor will test all the links on the page for success. If a failure is detected you can view the individual non-successful links that caused the failure.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Certificate check monitor
      </td>

      <td>
        Proactively ping your domain certificates based on a configurable threshold. Pair with an alert to ensure you are notified when your certificates need renewed.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Ping monitor

        API name: `SIMPLE`
      </td>

      <td>
        Ping monitors are the simplest type of monitor. They simply check to see if an application is online. The synthetic ping monitor uses a simple Java HTTP client to make requests to your site.

        For consistency with other synthetic monitor types, the user agent is identified as `Google Chrome`. However, the HTTP client is not a full browser, and it does not execute JavaScript. If you need JavaScript functionality, use a simple browser monitor.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Step monitor

        API name: `STEP_MONITOR`
      </td>

      <td>
        Step monitors are advanced monitors which require no code to set up. 

        The monitor can be configured to:
        - Assert text
        - Assert title
        - Assert an element
        - Click an element
        - Dismiss a modal
        - Double click an element
        - Hover an element
        - Navigate to a URL
        - Secure a credential
        - Select from a dropdown
        - Type text
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Simple browser monitors

        API name: `BROWSER`
      </td>

      <td>
        Simple browser monitors essentially are simple, pre-built scripted browser monitors. They make a request to your site using an instance of Google Chrome.

        Compared to a simple ping monitor, this is a more accurate emulation of an actual customer visit. The user agent is identified as `Google Chrome`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Scripted browser monitors

        API name: `SCRIPT_BROWSER`
      </td>

      <td>
        Scripted browser monitors are used for more sophisticated, customized monitoring. You can create a custom script that navigates your website, takes specific actions, and ensures specific resources are present.

        The monitor uses Google Chrome browser. You can also use a variety of [third-party modules](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/scripted-monitor-runtime-environment#runtime-table) to build your custom monitor.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        API tests

        API name: `SCRIPT_API`
      </td>

      <td>
        API tests are used to monitor your API endpoints. This can ensure that your app server works in addition to your website. New Relic uses the [`http-request` module](https://github.com/request/request "Link opens in a new window.") internally to make HTTP calls to your endpoint and validate the results.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

Update step monitor description
Update step monitor description by adding assert modal functionality and locate functionality. Minor grammar changes.

src/content/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/getting-started/types-synthetic-monitors.mdx, after:

---
title: Types of synthetic monitors
tags:
  - Synthetics
  - Synthetic monitoring
  - Getting started
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: Types of monitors available for synthetic monitoring in New Relic.
redirects:
  - /docs/alerts/availability-report
  - /docs/alert-policies/availability-report
  - /docs/reports/availability-report
  - /docs/alerts/availability-monitoring
  - /docs/features/availability-monitoring-faq
  - /docs/alerts/availability-monitoring-faq
  - /docs/alert-policies/availability-monitoring
  - /docs/alerts/alert-policies/downtime-alerts/availability-monitoring
  - /docs/alert-policies/troubleshooting-downtime-alerts
  - /docs/alerts/alert-policies/downtime-alerts
  - /docs/alerts/availability-monitor-settings
  - /node/3471
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/managing-notification-channels/availability-monitoring-legacy
  - /docs/apm/reports/other-performance-analysis/availability-report
  - /node/3266
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/types-synthetics-monitors
---

You can proactively monitor your website or API endpoints with [synthetic](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-synthetics) monitors. Depending on the type of monitor, you can:

* [Add and edit monitors](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/add-edit-monitors).
* Use the [Synthetics REST API](/docs/apis/synthetics-rest-api/monitor-examples/manage-synthetics-monitors-rest-api) to manage monitors.
* Set up monitors from [specific locations or for private servers](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/private-locations/private-locations-overview-monitor-internal-sites-add-new-locations).

You can also use the [host not reporting](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/configuration/create-infrastructure-host-not-reporting-condition) feature in [infrastructure monitoring](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-infrastructure). This allows you to take advantage of enhanced monitoring options and be notified when New Relic has stopped receiving data from your hosts.

## Types of monitors [#types-monitors]

These are the seven types of synthetic monitors:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        Type of synthetic monitor
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Broken links monitor
      </td>

      <td>
        Provide a url and this monitor will test all the links on the page for success. If a failure is detected you can view the individual non-successful links that caused the failure.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Certificate check monitor
      </td>

      <td>
        Proactively ping your domain certificates based on a configurable threshold. Pair with an alert to ensure you are notified when your certificates need renewed.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Ping monitor

        API name: `SIMPLE`
      </td>

      <td>
        Ping monitors are the simplest type of monitor. They simply check to see if an application is online. The synthetic ping monitor uses a simple Java HTTP client to make requests to your site.

        For consistency with other synthetic monitor types, the user agent is identified as `Google Chrome`. However, the HTTP client is not a full browser, and it does not execute JavaScript. If you need JavaScript functionality, use a simple browser monitor.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Step monitor

        API name: `STEP_MONITOR`
      </td>

      <td>
        Step monitors are advanced monitors which require no code to set up. 

        The monitor can be configured to:
        - Assert modal
        - Assert text
        - Assert title
        - Assert an element
        - Click an element
        - Dismiss a modal
        - Double click an element
        - Enter a secure credential
        - Hover over an element
        - Locate an element by CSS class, HTML ID, link text, Xpath, or value
        - Navigate to a URL
        - Select from a dropdown
        - Type text
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Simple browser monitors

        API name: `BROWSER`
      </td>

      <td>
        Simple browser monitors essentially are simple, pre-built scripted browser monitors. They make a request to your site using an instance of Google Chrome.

        Compared to a simple ping monitor, this is a more accurate emulation of an actual customer visit. The user agent is identified as `Google Chrome`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Scripted browser monitors

        API name: `SCRIPT_BROWSER`
      </td>

      <td>
        Scripted browser monitors are used for more sophisticated, customized monitoring. You can create a custom script that navigates your website, takes specific actions, and ensures specific resources are present.

        The monitor uses Google Chrome browser. You can also use a variety of [third-party modules](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/scripted-monitor-runtime-environment#runtime-table) to build your custom monitor.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        API tests

        API name: `SCRIPT_API`
      </td>

      <td>
        API tests are used to monitor your API endpoints. This can ensure that your app server works in addition to your website. New Relic uses the [`http-request` module](https://github.com/request/request "Link opens in a new window.") internally to make HTTP calls to your endpoint and validate the results.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
