src/content/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/troubleshooting/generate-trace-log-troubleshooting-nodejs.mdx, before:

---
title: Generate trace log for troubleshooting (Node.js)
tags:
  - Agents
  - Nodejs agent
  - Troubleshooting
metaDescription: 'To reduce disk space consumption, be sure to lower the ''trace'' log level after generating a troubleshooting log for your New Relic Node.js agent.'
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/nodejs-agent/troubleshooting/generate-trace-log-troubleshooting-nodejs
  - /docs/agents/nodejs-agent/troubleshooting/generate-logs-troubleshooting-nodejs
---

Your New Relic [Node.js agent log](/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration/#logging_config) captures errors at the default `info` level. However, when troubleshooting or debugging, generate a more verbose `trace` log to help find and investigate problems.

<Callout variant="important">
  The `trace` log setting is a highly verbose logging level. To reduce disk space consumption, return the `logging : {` section's `level` to its [original setting](/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration/#logging_config) after testing.
</Callout>

## Generate log files [#create]

To generate the detailed `trace` log file:

1. Edit your `newrelic.js` file and change the `logging` section's `level` to `trace`, or if using environment variables, set the `NEW_RELIC_LOG_LEVEL` to `trace`.

   ```js
   logging: {
     level: 'trace'
   }
   ```
2. Restart Node.
3. Exercise your web application for about five minutes to generate sufficient logging data.
4. After testing, change the `level` to a less verbose [logging level](/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration/#log_level), such as `info` (default).
5. Open and examine the generated log file.

## Examine log file [#logfile]

By default, the Node.js agent [stores the log file](/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration/#log) in the current working directory as `newrelic_agent.log`. If the log file or folder are not visible:

1. Check whether you have set the logging path to `stdout` or `stderr`.
2. Verify that the current working directory is the same as the directory where you expect the log file to be located.

Commit message:

chore(Node.js logs): Adding limitation with Lambda logs

src/content/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/troubleshooting/generate-trace-log-troubleshooting-nodejs.mdx, after:

---
title: Generate trace log for troubleshooting (Node.js)
tags:
  - Agents
  - Nodejs agent
  - Troubleshooting
metaDescription: 'To reduce disk space consumption, be sure to lower the ''trace'' log level after generating a troubleshooting log for your New Relic Node.js agent.'
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/nodejs-agent/troubleshooting/generate-trace-log-troubleshooting-nodejs
  - /docs/agents/nodejs-agent/troubleshooting/generate-logs-troubleshooting-nodejs
---

Your New Relic [Node.js agent log](/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration/#logging_config) captures errors at the default `info` level. However, when troubleshooting or debugging, generate a more verbose `trace` log to help find and investigate problems.

<Callout variant="important">
  The `trace` log setting is a highly verbose logging level. To reduce disk space consumption, return the `logging : {level}` section to its [original setting](/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration/#logging_config) after testing.
</Callout>

## Generate log files [#create]

To generate the detailed `trace` log file:

1. Edit your `newrelic.js` file and change the `logging` section's `level` to `trace`, or if using environment variables, set the `NEW_RELIC_LOG_LEVEL` to `trace`.

   ```js
   logging: {
     level: 'trace'
   }
   ```
2. Restart Node.
3. Exercise your web application for about five minutes to generate sufficient logging data.
4. After testing, change the `level` to a less verbose [logging level](/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration/#log_level), such as `info` (default).
5. Open and examine the generated log file.

You cannot generate `trace` logs for Lambda. Read more on [Lambda monitoring](/docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/enable-lambda-monitoring/enable-aws-lambda-monitoring).

## Examine log file [#logfile]

By default, the Node.js agent [stores the log file](/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration/#log) in the current working directory as `newrelic_agent.log`. If the log file or folder are not visible:

1. Check whether you have set the logging path to `stdout` or `stderr`.
2. Verify that the current working directory is the same as the directory where you expect the log file to be located.
