src/content/docs/externals/externals-ui.mdx, before:

---
title: How to use the new externals UI
---

The UI for new externals is a great place to analyze a single service along with its upstream and downstream services. The UI starts you off with a map of your selected service, along with related graphs showing the top five results for response time, call count, and error count.

![Screenshot showing the map and signals for a service](./images/externals-ui-overview.png "Screenshot showing the map and signals for a service")

## How to find the new externals feature [#where-externals]

The new externals is available from the left navigation pane once you select a service in Explorer. Do one of the following:

   * New Relic Explorer: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Explorer > (select an app) > Monitor > External services**.
   * APM: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > APM > (select an app) > Monitor > External services**.

## How to use the new externals map [#use-the-map]

The initial map shows your selected service as a hexagon (vertex) in the center with lines (edges) linking it to other hexagons (vertices) for upstream and downstream services. The map displays an aggregation of all of the distributed traces that were recorded that involve this service, as well as  all the different calls between transactions between the various endpoints.

The thickness of the lines represents the throughput for the service, and the darkness of the line is time consumed (throughput times duration).

Here is a typical map workflow:

1. Look for the thickest and darkest line on the map and follow it to its upstream or downstream service.
2. Click on the endpoint in the upstream or downstream service, which opens a new map of that transaction. 
[QUESTION: HOW CAN I GET A SCREENSHOT OF A SINGLE TRANSACTION?]
3. If you decide that a particular transaction is taking the most time, you can click **Traces** in the bottom pane of externals.
[QUESTION: WHERE CAN I GET A SCREENSHOT OF THIS?]
4. In the distributed tracing UI, you can click on a trace group to see individual traces involved in your transaction. 
5. Then, you can drill into individual traces.
6. [QUESTION: WHAT ADDITION STEPS DO WE NEED HERE?


[QUESTION: WHAT OTHER ASPECTS OF THE UI DO WE NEED TO EXPLAIN? DO WE NEED TO COACH USERS ABOUT THE MEANING OF THE NUMBERS (RESPONSE TIME, CALL COUNT, ETC.)]

Commit message:

fix(new external services): continue migration to markdown for publication

src/content/docs/externals/externals-ui.mdx, after:

---
title: How to use the new external services UI
metaDescription: "Here are tips about how to use the external services UI"
---

The UI for new external services is a great place to analyze a single service along with its upstream and downstream services. The UI starts you off with a map of your selected service, along with related graphs showing the top five results for response time, call count, and error count.

![Screenshot showing the map and signals for a service](./images/externals-ui-overview.png "Screenshot showing the map and signals for a service")

## How to find the new external services feature [#where-externals]

The new external services is available from the left navigation pane once you select a service in Explorer. Do one of the following:

   * New Relic Explorer: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Explorer > (select an app) > Monitor > External services**.
   * APM: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > APM > (select an app) > Monitor > External services**.

## How to use the new external services map [#use-the-map]

The opening map shows two vertical rectangles: one representing your selected service and another showing either the upstream or downstream service. The default is the downstream service. Each of the service rectangles contains vertices (hexagonal shapes) that represent the service’s endpoints. The vertices are connected across services by edges (lines). 

The map shows the performance of the calls between your service and the upstream and downstream entities. The thickness of the lines represents the throughput for the service, and the darkness of the line is time consumed (throughput times duration).

Here is a typical map workflow you might follow:

1. Look for the thickest and darkest line on the map and follow it to its upstream or downstream service.
2. Click on the upstream or downstream vertex for that service to view a breakdown of transactions between the two services.
[QUESTION: HOW CAN I GET A SCREENSHOT OF A SINGLE TRANSACTION?]
3. If you decide that a particular transaction is taking the most time, you can click on that transaction to focus specifically on its dependencies.
[QUESTION: WHERE CAN I GET A SCREENSHOT OF THIS?]
4. From any point in this flow, you can view a table view which shows you how performance has changed over time and allows you to drill into distributed traces. 

All views for OpenTelemetry services, and all views except the top-level view for APM services are driven by sampled data. So, since all the externals pages, except the initial page for APM services, display sampled data, here’s how to understand the numbers:

  * **Call count** represents the number of sampled calls we have for a given path between two services or transactions. This is lower than the total throughput, unless you are sampling 100% of your requests.
  * **Response time** is the average duration of sampled calls between two services or transactions. How representative this is of actual system performance depends on the effective sample rate.
  * **Error count** is the number of sampled calls between two services or transactions that had errors.
