src/content/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/troubleshooting/incorrect-host-name-reported.mdx, before:

---
title: Incorrect host name reported
type: troubleshooting
tags:
  - Infrastructure
  - Infrastructure monitoring troubleshooting
  - Troubleshoot infrastructure
redirects:
  - /docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/troubleshooting/wrong-host-name-reported
---

## Problem

The agent is working, but the [infrastructure monitoring UI](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/infrastructure-ui-pages/infrastructure-compute-page-measure-resource-usage) shows the wrong hostname.

## Solution

To set the correct hostname, try the following steps:

1. Edit the [newrelic-infra.yml](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/configuration/configure-infrastructure-agent#config-file) configuration file and add the `override_hostname` option, whose value is your expected hostname. For example:

   ```
   override_hostname: <var>correct-host.domain.com</var>
   ```
2. Use [your init system](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/configuration/start-stop-restart-check-infrastructure-agent-status#init-system) to restart the agent service:

   <CollapserGroup>
     <Collapser
       id="systemd-verify-status"
       title="Restart the agent with SystemD"
     >
       Use SystemD commands with CentOS 7, Debian 8, RHEL 7, and Ubuntu 15.04 or higher:

       ```
       sudo systemctl restart newrelic-infra
       ```
     </Collapser>

     <Collapser
       id="systemv-verify-status"
       title="Restart the agent with System V"
     >
       Use System V commands with Debian 7:

       ```
       sudo /etc/init.d/newrelic-infra restart
       ```
     </Collapser>

     <Collapser
       id="upstart-verify-status"
       title="Restart the agent with Upstart"
     >
       Use Upstart commands with Amazon Linux, CentOS 6, RHEL 6, and Ubuntu 14.10 or lower:

       ```
       sudo initctl restart newrelic-infra
       ```
     </Collapser>

     <Collapser
       id="windows-verify-status"
       title="Restart the agent in Windows"
     >
       ```
       net stop newrelic-infra
       net start newrelic-infra
       ```
     </Collapser>
   </CollapserGroup>

## Cause

The New Relic infrastructure agent tries to resolve its [fully qualified domain name](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fully_qualified_domain_name) against a domain name server, which may not be properly configured or not controlled by the same user as the New Relic infrastructure agent.

Commit message:

infra-agent: hostname resolution internal in windows

src/content/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/troubleshooting/incorrect-host-name-reported.mdx, after:

---
title: Incorrect host name reported
type: troubleshooting
tags:
  - Infrastructure
  - Infrastructure monitoring troubleshooting
  - Troubleshoot infrastructure
redirects:
  - /docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/troubleshooting/wrong-host-name-reported
---

## Problem

The agent is working, but the [infrastructure monitoring UI](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/infrastructure-ui-pages/infrastructure-compute-page-measure-resource-usage) shows the wrong hostname.

## Solution

To set the correct hostname, try the following steps:

1. Edit the [newrelic-infra.yml](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/configuration/configure-infrastructure-agent#config-file) configuration file and add the `override_hostname` option, whose value is your expected hostname. For example:

   ```
   override_hostname: <var>correct-host.domain.com</var>
   ```
2. Use [your init system](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/configuration/start-stop-restart-check-infrastructure-agent-status#init-system) to restart the agent service:

   <CollapserGroup>
     <Collapser
       id="systemd-verify-status"
       title="Restart the agent with SystemD"
     >
       Use SystemD commands with CentOS 7, Debian 8, RHEL 7, and Ubuntu 15.04 or higher:

       ```
       sudo systemctl restart newrelic-infra
       ```
     </Collapser>

     <Collapser
       id="systemv-verify-status"
       title="Restart the agent with System V"
     >
       Use System V commands with Debian 7:

       ```
       sudo /etc/init.d/newrelic-infra restart
       ```
     </Collapser>

     <Collapser
       id="upstart-verify-status"
       title="Restart the agent with Upstart"
     >
       Use Upstart commands with Amazon Linux, CentOS 6, RHEL 6, and Ubuntu 14.10 or lower:

       ```
       sudo initctl restart newrelic-infra
       ```
     </Collapser>

     <Collapser
       id="windows-verify-status"
       title="Restart the agent in Windows"
     >
       ```
       net stop newrelic-infra
       net start newrelic-infra
       ```
     </Collapser>
   </CollapserGroup>

## Cause

In Linux and macOS the New Relic infrastructure agent tries to resolve its [fully qualified domain name](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fully_qualified_domain_name) against a domain name server, which may not be properly configured or not controlled by the same user as the New Relic infrastructure agent.
In Windows it resolves it using internal tools.
