src/content/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/notifications/intro-notifications.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction to notifications
tags:
  - Alerts and Applied Intelligence
  - Applied intelligence
  - Notifications
  - Workflows
  - Error Inbox
metaDescription: "Notifications are where you integrate your New Relic One data with third-party services, such as Slack, Email, Jira, and ServiceNow."
---

<Callout title="Early access">
The features described here are early access. You won't be able to use these features if you're not part of the early access program.

For more information on related features, see our docs on [Alerts notification channels](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-notifications/notification-channels-control-where-send-alerts/), [Incident Intelligence destinations](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/applied-intelligence/incident-intelligence/incident-intelligence-destination-examples/), and [Proactive Detection notifications](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/applied-intelligence/proactive-detection/proactive-detection-applied-intelligence/#set-up).
</Callout>

Notifications are a consolidation of the different ways to send notification-events to third-party services, such as Slack, Jira, ServiceNow, and email. You can also use webhooks to send your data to any compatible third-party service.

Notifications are made up of destinations, message templates, and specific notification integrations.

## Destinations [#destinations]

Destinations are unique identifiers and connection details for third-party systems. Use destinations to integrate, send notifications and share data between New Relic and your third-party systems.

## Message templates [#message-templates]

We've provided message templates to map New Relic One data to your third-party services.

## Notification integrations [#integrations]

The notification integrations are the specific services we support sending your data to. You can also send your data to any third-party service that supports webhooks.

Commit message:

ai-docs-update - notifications and workflows

src/content/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/notifications/intro-notifications.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction to notifications
tags:
  - Alerts and Applied Intelligence
  - Applied intelligence
  - Notifications
  - Workflows
  - Error Inbox
metaDescription: "Notifications are where you integrate your New Relic One data with third-party services, such as Slack, Email, Jira, and ServiceNow."
---

<Callout title="Early access">
The features described here are early access. You won't be able to use these features if you're not part of the early access program.

For more information on related features, see our docs on [Alerts notification channels](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-notifications/notification-channels-control-where-send-alerts/), [Incident Intelligence destinations](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/applied-intelligence/incident-intelligence/incident-intelligence-destination-examples/), and [Proactive Detection notifications](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/applied-intelligence/proactive-detection/proactive-detection-applied-intelligence/#set-up).
</Callout>

Notifications are a consolidation of the different ways to send notification-events to third-party services, such as Slack, Jira, ServiceNow, and email. You can also use webhooks to send your data to any compatible third-party service.

Integrate with your systems by configure destinations and message templates.

## Destinations [#destinations]

Destinations are unique identifiers and connection details for third-party systems. Use destinations to integrate, send notifications and share data between New Relic and your third-party systems.

## Message templates [#message-templates]

Configure the eventual notification events and map New Relic One data to your third-party services using message-templates
