src/content/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/monitoring/external-services/external-services-ui.mdx, before:

---
title: How to use the external services UI
metaDescription: "Here are tips about how to use the external services UI"
---

The UI for external services is a great place to analyze a single service along with its upstream and downstream services. The UI starts you off with a map of your selected service, along with related graphs showing the top five results for response time, call count, and error count.

## How to find the external services feature [#where-externals]

The external services feature is available from the left navigation pane once you select a service in Explorer. Do one of the following:

   * New Relic Explorer: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Explorer > (select an app) > Monitor > External services**.
   * APM: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > APM > (select an app) > Monitor > External services**.

## How to use the external services map [#use-the-map]

The opening map displays your selected service as a vertex (hexagonal shape) with rectangles around the upstream or downstream services. The initial view is the downstream service, so the tab **Downstream entities** is selected by default. When you're on that tab, the performance metrics (**Response time**, **Call count**, and **Error count**) apply to the downstream services. You can click **Upstream entities** to switch to those performance metrics.

![Screenshot showing the opening map for external services](./images/intro-example.png "Screenshot showing the opening map for external services")

On the initial page for external services, each of the rectangles contains vertices that represent the upstream or downstream services. The vertices are connected across services by edges (lines). When you drill into a particular service, the vertices on those drill-down pages become the service endpoints so you can see transaction detail.

The thickness of the lines represents the throughput for the service, and the darkness of the line is time consumed (throughput times duration).

### Map legend [#map-legend]

In the map legend, you have the option to select two types of services:

  * **Services**: These are services you own and have instrumented
  * **Uninstrumented externals**: These are uninstrumented services that you may or may not own

### Workflow example [#workflow-example]

Here is a typical map workflow you might follow:

1. Look for the thickest and darkest line on the map and follow it to its upstream or downstream service.
2. Click on the upstream or downstream vertex.
3. View a breakdown of transactions between the two services.
![Screenshot showing calls to various endpoints in downstream service](./images/downstream-endpoints.png "Screenshot showing calls to various endpoints in downstream service")
<figcaption>In this example, one of the thicker edges (lines) goes from the Order-Composer service to the warehouse endpoint in the Order Status service.</figcaption>
4. If you decide that a particular transaction is taking the most time, you can click on that transaction to focus specifically on its dependencies.
![Screenshot showing the transaction between the Order-Composer service and the warehouse endpoint in the Order-Status service](./images/specific-transaction.png "Screenshot showing the transaction between the Order-Composer service and the warehouse endpoint in the Order-Status service")
<figcaption>In this drill-down view, you can see the transaction between the Order-Composer service and the warehouse endpoint in the Order-Status service.</figcaption>
5. From any point in this flow, you can consult the supporting graphs, which show how performance has changed over time. 

### How to understand the numbers [#understand-data]

All views for OpenTelemetry services, and all APM views except the top-level view are driven by sampled data. With this in mind, here’s how to understand the performance metrics:

  * **Call count** represents the number of sampled calls we have for a given path between two services or transactions. This is lower than the total throughput, unless you are sampling 100% of your requests.
  * **Response time** is the average duration of sampled calls between two services or transactions. How well this represents actual system performance depends on the effective sample rate.
  * **Error count** is the number of sampled calls between two services or transactions that had errors.

Commit message:

fix(external services): Add table examples to UI instructions

src/content/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/monitoring/external-services/external-services-ui.mdx, after:

---
title: How to use the external services UI
metaDescription: "Here are tips about how to use the external services UI"
---

The UI for external services is a great place to analyze a single service along with its upstream and downstream services. The UI starts you off with a map of your selected service, along with performance metrics showing the top five results for response time, call count, and error count. If you prefer, you can also see the same map details represented in a table format.

## How to find the external services feature [#where-externals]

The external services feature is available from the left navigation pane once you select a service in Explorer. Do one of the following:

   * New Relic Explorer: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Explorer > (select an app) > Monitor > External services**.
   * APM: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > APM > (select an app) > Monitor > External services**.

## How to use the external services map [#use-the-map]

The opening map displays your selected service as a vertex (hexagonal shape) with rectangles around the upstream or downstream services. The initial view is the downstream service, so the tab **Downstream entities** is selected by default. When you're on that tab, the performance metrics (**Response time**, **Call count**, and **Error count**) apply to the downstream services. You can click **Upstream entities** to switch to those performance metrics.

![Screenshot showing the opening map for external services](./images/intro-example.png "Screenshot showing the opening map for external services")

### Drill down in map for transaction details [#drill-down]

On the initial page for external services, each of the rectangles contains vertices that represent the upstream or downstream services. The vertices are connected across services by edges (lines). When you drill into a particular service, the vertices on those drill-down pages become the service endpoints so you can see transaction detail.

The thickness of the lines represents the throughput for the service, and the darkness of the line is time consumed (throughput times duration).

### Map legend [#map-legend]

In the map legend, you have the option to select two types of services:

  * **Services**: These are services you own and have instrumented
  * **Uninstrumented externals**: These are uninstrumented services that you may or may not own

## The external services table view [#table-view]

As a companion to the map view, the table view lists all the map services in a table format. You can click on specific entities (services) to see transactions in the drill-down tables.

The tables display percentage change for each of the three performance metrics, and you can click on **Traces** to switch over to distributed tracing details.

![Screenshot showing the table version of the external services map](./images/table-view.png "Screenshot showing the table version of the external services map")

## Workflow example [#workflow-example]

Here is a typical map workflow you might follow:

1. Look for the thickest and darkest line on the map and follow it to its upstream or downstream service.
2. Click on the upstream or downstream vertex.
3. View a breakdown of transactions between the two services.
![Screenshot showing calls to various endpoints in downstream service](./images/downstream-endpoints.png "Screenshot showing calls to various endpoints in downstream service")
<figcaption>In this example, one of the thicker edges (lines) goes from the Order-Composer service to the warehouse endpoint in the Order Status service.</figcaption>
4. If you decide that a particular transaction is taking the most time, you can click on that transaction to focus specifically on its dependencies.
![Screenshot showing the transaction between the Order-Composer service and the warehouse endpoint in the Order-Status service](./images/specific-transaction.png "Screenshot showing the transaction between the Order-Composer service and the warehouse endpoint in the Order-Status service")
<figcaption>In this drill-down view, you can see the transaction between the Order-Composer service and the warehouse endpoint in the Order-Status service.</figcaption>
5. From any point in this flow, consult the supporting performance metrics, which show changes over time.
6. If you reach a point in the drill-down where you want to see distributed tracing, click **List** in the upper-right, and then click **Traces** in the table.
![Screenshot showing the trace link in the table view](./images/tracing-link-in-table.png "Screenshot showing the trace link in the table view")  

### How to understand the numbers [#understand-data]

All views for OpenTelemetry services, and all APM views except the top-level view are driven by sampled data. With this in mind, here’s how to understand the performance metrics:

  * **Call count** represents the number of sampled calls we have for a given path between two services or transactions. This is lower than the total throughput, unless you are sampling 100% of your requests.
  * **Response time** is the average duration of sampled calls between two services or transactions. How well this represents actual system performance depends on the effective sample rate.
  * **Error count** is the number of sampled calls between two services or transactions that had errors.
