src/content/docs/codestream/how-use-codestream/performance-monitoring.mdx, before:

---
title: Performance monitoring with CodeStream
metaDescription: "How to discover and colloborate on errors in CodeStream."
---

It’s important to know how your code is performing in production and whether or not it’s generating errors. To help you with this, New Relic CodeStream brings performance monitoring right into your IDE.

## Connect CodeStream to your New Relic One account [#connect]

Once you’ve [connected CodeStream to your New Relic One account](/docs/codestream/start-here/codestream-new-relic), and you've created one or more workloads with [errors inbox](/docs/errors-inbox/errors-inbox/) on New Relic One, use **Open in IDE** to see APM errors with stack traces directly in your IDE.

![A screenshot of a stack trace error in errors inbox with the "Open in IDE button."](./images/ErrorsInbox.png "A stack trace error in errors inbox with the "Open in IDE button")

<figcaption>When you've connected New Relic CodeStream to your New Relic One account, in errors inbox click **Open in IDE** to see the code that caused the error.</figcaption>

![Error on New Relic One](./images/ErrorOnNR1.png)

Once connected, all of your collaboration work in CodeStream (such as the discussion, assignee, and error status) syncs with New Relic One, where you can continue to collaborate. A typical collaboration session could include  developers commenting on code in their IDEs, a DevOps engineer assigning errors in errors inbox, and a development manager following along in Slack. By meeting people in the tools they're already using, New Relic CodeStream shortens the amount of time between error discovery and error resolution.

## CodeStream observability [#observability]

In addition to errors inbox, discover errors in your IDE in the [CodeStream observability section](/docs/codestream/codestream-ui-overview/observability-section). In addition to recent errors in your repos, see any specific errors assigned to you.

![A screenshot of the observability section with recent and assigned stack trace errors.](./images/ObservabilitySection.png "The observability section with recent and assigned stack trace errors.")

<figcaption>Use CodeStream's observability section to keep up to date with recent and assigned stack trace errors.</figcaption>

## Error details [#error-details]

No matter how you've arrived at an error in your IDE, CodeStream presents all of the error’s details, including the stack trace, and you can collaborate with your teammates to resolve the error.

![An animated image that shows someone commenting on a line of code associated with an error.](./images/Observability-VSC.gif "Someone commenting on a line of code associated with an error.")

<figcaption>Click any frame in the stack trace to jump straight to the corresponding file and line number in your IDE. As you navigate the stack trace, if you come across code that seems like the source of your problem,  select it and click the comment icon to start collaborating.</figcaption>

## Collaborate with CodeStream [#collaborate]

![A screenshot of a comment with the most recent code contributor automatically added.](./images/ErrorAutoMention.png "A comment with the most recent code contributor automatically added.")

<figcaption>CodeStream automatically mentions the most recent person to touch the code related to the error, making it easy for you to bring the right people into the discussion.</figcaption>

![A screenshot of the CodeStream's error assignment.](./images/ErrorAssignee.png "CodeStream's error assignment.")

<figcaption>Once you’ve identified the problem you can assign the error, either to an existing teammate on CodeStream or to a person suggested based on the repository’s Git commit history.</figcaption>

![A screenshot of the error status dropdown.](./images/ErrorStatus.png "The error status dropdown.")

<figcaption>You can update the error’s status from unresolved to resolved or ignored.</figcaption>

## Use build SHAs with CodeStream [#sha]

![A screenshot of the build SHA not configured warning message.](./images/BuildSHANotConfigured.png "The build SHA not configured warning message.")

<figcaption>The build SHA not configured warning message reads: No build SHA associated with this error. Your version of the code may not match the environment that triggered the error.</figcaption>

You may see this warning if there's no build SHA associated with a specific error.

CodeStream uses the build SHA to match the specific stack trace error with the version of the code running in the environment that triggered the error.

To resolve this warning, [set the environment variables for your APM agent](/docs/codestream/start-here/codestream-new-relic/#buildsha).

Even without the build SHA configured, you can still investigate the error, but you may not be looking at the version of the code that caused it.

![A screenshot of the build SHA not found warning message.](./images/BuildSHANotFound.png "The build SHA not found warning message.")

<figcaption>The build SHA not found warning message reads: Your version of the code doesn't match production. Fetch the following commit to better investigate the error.</figcaption>

If you do have build SHAs configured, but the version of the code you're on locally doesn't contain that commit, CodeStream will let you know so that you can more effectively investigate and resolve the error.

CodeStream will also let you know if the error doesn’t have a stack trace
associated with it. This happens with older errors when the stack trace has
aged out on New Relic One.

## Other collaboration tools [#other-tools]

In an error discussion, use the `...` **More actions** dropdown to share the continue the collaboration on other tools, like Slack or Microsoft Teams.

## Associate your repo [#repo]

![A screenshot of the missing repository info message.](./images/RepoAssociation.png "The missing repository info message.")

<figcaption>If there's no repository associated with CodeStream when you click **Open in IDE** on an error, CodeStream prompts you to do so.</figcaption>

All of the repos you currently have open in your IDE are listed in the **select a repo** dropdown.

If you don’t see the repository you want listed, open it in your IDE and it will
automatically get added to the list. If you’re working with a fork, make sure you select the upstream remote.

To avoid having to do this manual association every time you open an error, you can [make these
associations via your APM agent's environment variables](/docs/codestream/start-here/codestream-new-relic/#repo-url).

Commit message:

Update What Is CS and more

src/content/docs/codestream/how-use-codestream/performance-monitoring.mdx, after:

---
title: Performance monitoring with CodeStream
metaDescription: "How to discover and colloborate on errors in CodeStream."
---

It’s important to know how your code is performing in production and whether or not it’s generating errors. To help you with this, New Relic CodeStream brings performance monitoring right into your IDE.

## Dicover errors on New Relic One account [#discover-on-NR1]

Once you’ve [connected CodeStream to your New Relic One account](/docs/codestream/start-here/codestream-new-relic), and you've created one or more workloads with [errors inbox](/docs/errors-inbox/errors-inbox/) on New Relic One, use **Open in IDE** to see APM errors with stack traces directly in your IDE.

![A screenshot of a stack trace error in errors inbox with the "Open in IDE button."](./images/ErrorsInbox.png "A stack trace error in errors inbox with the "Open in IDE button")

<figcaption>When you've connected CodeStream to your New Relic One account, in errors inbox click **Open in IDE** to see the code that caused the error.</figcaption>

![Error on New Relic One](./images/ErrorOnNR1.png)

Once connected, all of your collaboration work in CodeStream (such as the discussion, assignee, and error status) syncs with New Relic One, where you can continue to collaborate. A typical collaboration session could include  developers commenting on code in their IDEs, a DevOps engineer assigning errors in errors inbox, and a development manager following along in Slack. By meeting people in the tools they're already using, New Relic CodeStream shortens the amount of time between error discovery and error resolution.

## Discover errors via CodeStream [#discover-via-CS]

In addition to errors inbox, discover errors in your IDE in the [CodeStream observability section](/docs/codestream/codestream-ui-overview/observability-section). In addition to recent errors in your repos, see any specific errors assigned to you.

![A screenshot of the observability section with recent and assigned stack trace errors.](./images/ObservabilitySection.png "The observability section with recent and assigned stack trace errors.")

<figcaption>Use CodeStream's observability section to keep up to date with recent and assigned stack trace errors.</figcaption>

## Error details [#error-details]

No matter how you've arrived at an error in your IDE, CodeStream presents all of the error’s details, including the stack trace, and you can collaborate with your teammates to resolve the error.

![An animated image that shows someone commenting on a line of code associated with an error.](./images/Observability-VSC.gif "Someone commenting on a line of code associated with an error.")

<figcaption>Navigate the stack trace to investigate the issue.</figcaption>

Click any frame in the stack trace to jump straight to the corresponding file and line number in your IDE. As you navigate the stack trace, if you come across code that seems like the source of your problem,  select it and click the comment icon to start collaborating.

## Collaborate with CodeStream [#collaborate]

Once you've identified the problematic code, just select it in your editor and click on the Comment icon that appears next to it in the CodeStream pane. CodeStream automatically mentions the most recent person to touch the code related to the error, making it easy for you to bring the right people into the discussion.

![A screenshot of a comment with the most recent code contributor automatically added.](./images/ErrorAutoMention.png "A comment with the most recent code contributor automatically added.")

<figcaption>Select code in your editor to add a comment.</figcaption>

Assign the error and update its status for better tracking an accountability.

![A screenshot of the CodeStream's error assignment.](./images/ErrorAssignee.png "CodeStream's error assignment.")

<figcaption>Once you’ve identified the problem you can assign the error, either to an existing teammate on CodeStream or to a person suggested based on the repository’s Git commit history.</figcaption>

![A screenshot of the error status dropdown.](./images/ErrorStatus.png "The error status dropdown.")

<figcaption>You can update the error’s status from unresolved to resolved or ignored.</figcaption>

## Use build SHAs with CodeStream [#sha]

You may see this warning if there's no build SHA associated with a specific error. CodeStream uses the build SHA to match the specific stack trace error with the version of the code running in the environment that triggered the error.

![A screenshot of the build SHA not configured warning message.](./images/BuildSHANotConfigured.png "The build SHA not configured warning message.")

<figcaption>The build SHA not configured warning message reads: No build SHA associated with this error. Your version of the code may not match the environment that triggered the error.</figcaption>

To resolve this warning, [set the environment variables for your APM agent](/docs/codestream/start-here/codestream-new-relic/#buildsha).

Even without the build SHA configured, you can still investigate the error, but you may not be looking at the version of the code that caused it.

![A screenshot of the build SHA not found warning message.](./images/BuildSHANotFound.png "The build SHA not found warning message.")

<figcaption>The build SHA not found warning message reads: Your version of the code doesn't match production. Fetch the following commit to better investigate the error.</figcaption>

If you do have build SHAs configured, but the version of the code you're on locally doesn't contain that commit, CodeStream will let you know so that you can more effectively investigate and resolve the error.

CodeStream will also let you know if the error doesn’t have a stack trace
associated with it. This happens with older errors when the stack trace has
aged out on New Relic One.

## Other collaboration tools [#other-tools]

In an error discussion, use the `...` **More actions** dropdown to share the discussion on Slack or Microsoft Teams.

## Associate your repository [#repo]

![A screenshot of the missing repository info message.](./images/RepoAssociation.png "The missing repository info message.")

<figcaption>If there's no repository associated with CodeStream when you click **Open in IDE** on an error, CodeStream prompts you to do so.</figcaption>

All of the repositories you currently have open in your IDE are listed in the **select a repo** dropdown.

If you don’t see the repository you want listed, open it in your IDE and it will
automatically get added to the list. If you’re working with a fork, make sure you select the upstream remote.

To avoid having to do this manual association every time you open an error, you can [make these
associations via your APM agent's environment variables](/docs/codestream/start-here/codestream-new-relic/#repo-url).
