src/content/docs/infrastructure/prometheus-integrations/install-configure-remote-write/set-your-prometheus-remote-write-integration.mdx, before:

---
title: Set up your Prometheus remote write integration
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Prometheus integrations
  - Install and configure remote write
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: How to set up or remove your Prometheus remote write integration to New Relic.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/install-configure-remote-write/set-your-prometheus-remote-write-integration
  - /docs/set-or-remove-your-prometheus-remote-write-integration
  - /docs/set-your-prometheus-remote-write-integration
  - /docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/install-configure/set-your-prometheus-remote-write-integration
---

You can get Prometheus data flowing in New Relic with just a few simple steps. This page covers basic setup for the remote write integration, as well as a few common troubleshooting topics. For information on integrating Prometheus servers in a high availability (HA) configuration, see our [Prometheus high availability](/docs/prometheus-high-availability-ha) documentation.

## Set up the integration [#setup]

Go to the [Prometheus remote write setup launcher in New Relic One](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJwcm9tZXRoZXVzLXJlbW90ZS13cml0ZS1pbnRlZ3JhdGlvbi1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1wcm9tZXRoZXVzIn0=), then complete these steps.

<ButtonLink
  data-tessen="stitchedPathLinkClick"
  role="button"
  to="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJwcm9tZXRoZXVzLXJlbW90ZS13cml0ZS1pbnRlZ3JhdGlvbi1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1wcm9tZXRoZXVzIn0="
  variant="primary"
>
  Add Prometheus data
</ButtonLink>

1. Enter a name for the Prometheus server to be connected and your `remote_write` URL. **Important:** The name you enter for the server will create an attribute on your data. It will also be the name that identifies which Prometheus server is sending data to New Relic.
2. Add a new `remote_write` URL to your Prometheus YML file. Add this information under `global_config` in the file, at the same indentation level as the `global` section.

   Use the following syntax:

   ```
   remote_write: 
   - url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?prometheus_server=<var>YOUR_DATA_SOURCE_NAME</var>  
     bearer_token:<var>YOUR_LICENSE_KEY</var>
   ```

   OR

   ```
   remote_write: 
   - url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?X-License-Key=<var>YOUR_LICENSE_KEY</var>&prometheus_server=<var>YOUR_DATA_SOURCE_NAME</var>
   ```

   **European Union accounts:** If you're connecting from the EU, use the following URL:

   ```
   https://metric-api.eu.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write
   ```

   **Kubernetes and Helm remote write integrations:** Add the remote write URL to your Helm [`values.yaml`](https://github.com/helm/charts/blob/c40486ab2eba0391119b7cc1509d6958fd21c31d/stable/prometheus/values.yaml#L631) file. Replace `remoteWrite: []` with two lines similar to the following example. Be sure to use your remote write URL and use indentation that matches the rest of the file:

   ```
   remoteWrite: 
   - url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?prometheus_server=<var>YOUR_DATA_SOURCE_NAME</var> 
     bearer_token:<var>YOUR_LICENSE_KEY</var>
   ```
3. Restart your Prometheus server.
4. View your data in the New Relic UI. For example, use the remote write [dashboard](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards) we automatically create when you set up your integration.

## Map Prometheus and New Relic metric types [#mapping]

The Prometheus remote write protocol does not include [metric type](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/understand-data/metric-data-type#metric-types) information or other helpful metric metadata when sending metrics to New Relic. Because the remote write protocol doesn't include this information, New Relic infers the metric type based on Prometheus naming conventions. Metrics not following these naming conventions may not be mapped correctly.

New Relic maps Prometheus metrics types into New Relic metric types based on Prometheus metric naming conventions as follows:

* `metricName_bucket` is stored as a New Relic count metric type.
* `metricName_count` is stored as a New Relic count metric type.
* `metricName_total` is stored as a New Relic count metric type.
* `metricName_sum` is stored as a New Relic summary metric type.

Everything else is stored as a New Relic gauge metric type.

## Override metric type mappings [#override-mapping]

If you have metrics that don't follow Prometheus naming conventions, you can configure remote-write to tag the metric with a `newrelic_metric_type` label that indicates the metric type. This label is stripped when received by New Relic.

**Example:** You have a counter metric named `my_counter`, which does not have our naming convention suffix of `_bucket`, `_count` or `_total`. In this situation, your metric would be identified as a gauge rather than a counter. To correct this, add the following relabel configuration to your `prometheus.yml`:

```
- url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?X-License-Key=...
  write_relabel_configs:
  - source_labels: [__name__]
    regex: ^my_counter$
    target_label: newrelic_metric_type
    replacement: "counter"
    action: replace
```

This rule matches any metric with the name `my_counter` and adds a `newrelic_metric_type` label that identifies it as a counter. You can use the following (case sensitive) values as the replacement value:

* counter
* gauge
* summary

When a `newrelic_metric_type` label is present on a metric received and set to one of the valid values, New Relic will assign the indicated type to the metric (and strip the label) before downstream consumption in the data pipeline. If you have multiple metrics that don't follow the above naming conventions, you can add multiple rules with each rule matching different source labels.

## Set allow or deny lists for sent metrics [#allow-deny]

If you need greater control over the data you send to New Relic, you can send a subset of your metrics. To do this, configure `remote-write` with the `write_relabel_configs` parameter with a subparameter `action` value of `keep` or `deny`.

In this example, you'll only send the metrics that match the regular expression. Unmatched metrics won't be sent. Alternatively, you can use `action: drop` to drop all of the metrics that match the regular expression.

```
- url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?X-License-Key=...
  write_relabel_configs:
  - source_labels: [__name__]
    regex: "coredns_(.*)|etcd_(.*)"
    action: keep
```

This Kubernetes example uses this Helm chart's [`values.yaml`](https://github.com/helm/charts/blob/c40486ab2eba0391119b7cc1509d6958fd21c31d/stable/prometheus/values.yaml#L631) file. If you're using a different Helm chart, please check its `remoteWrite` documentation (for example, some Helm files use camelcase `writeRelabelConfigs` instead).

```
  remoteWrite:
    - url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?X-License-Key=...
      write_relabel_configs:
      - source_labels: [__name__]
        regex: "coredns_(.*)|etcd_(.*)"
        action: keep
```

## Customize remote write behavior [#customize]

You can customize the following parameters if you are writing to more than one account in New Relic or are connecting more than one Prometheus data source to the same account in New Relic. For more information, see the [docs on remote write tuning](https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/remote_write/).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="x-license-key"
    title="X-License Key"
  >
    Your account's [license key](/docs/accounts/install-new-relic/account-setup/license-key) is not an API key. The license key is used for authentication and to identify which account to write data into. If you are configuring Prometheus to write into different New Relic accounts, use a different key on each remote write URL.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="prometheus_server-url-parameter"
    title={<><InlineCode>prometheus_server</InlineCode> URL parameter</>}
  >
    The `prometheus_server` parameter is a label or attribute used to add to stats that are written to [NRDB](https://newrelic.com/resources/ebooks/inside-nrdb-flexible-unified-database). Use this same label when [configuring your Grafana data source](/docs/configure-prometheus-data-source-grafana) to limit results to just those from a particular `prometheus_server`.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="optimize-throughput"
    title="Optimize throughput and memory consumption"
  >
    Remote write [increases the total memory consumption](https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/remote_write/#memory-usage) of your Prometheus servers.

    If you're experiencing issues we recommend the following:

    * Increase [`max_samples_per_send`](https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/remote_write/#max_samples_per_send) for higher throughput workloads, along a proportional increase in [`capacity`](https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/remote_write/#capacity).
    * If memory consumption is still a problem, try limiting the number of [`max_shards`](https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/remote_write/#max_shards) per server.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Troubleshoot error messages [#error-messages]

If you receive an integration error message from New Relic or error messages in your Prometheus server logs after restarting your Prometheus server, review our [remote write troubleshooting documentation](/docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/install-configure-remote-write/remote-write-errors-error-messages). This includes fixing common errors, such as missing or incorrect characters, bad requests, request entity too large, and rate limit errors.

## Remove the integration [#remove-integration]

When you remove the Prometheus remote write integration, this stops new data from flowing, but it will not purge or remove any historical data. To remove the integration, remove the configuration code snippet from your Prometheus YML file, then restart the server.

Commit message:

Add remote write configuration for v2.26+
Prometheus made breaking changes to remote write configuration in v2.26

src/content/docs/infrastructure/prometheus-integrations/install-configure-remote-write/set-your-prometheus-remote-write-integration.mdx, after:

---
title: Set up your Prometheus remote write integration
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Prometheus integrations
  - Install and configure remote write
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: How to set up or remove your Prometheus remote write integration to New Relic.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/install-configure-remote-write/set-your-prometheus-remote-write-integration
  - /docs/set-or-remove-your-prometheus-remote-write-integration
  - /docs/set-your-prometheus-remote-write-integration
  - /docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/install-configure/set-your-prometheus-remote-write-integration
---

You can get Prometheus data flowing in New Relic with just a few simple steps. This page covers basic setup for the remote write integration, as well as a few common troubleshooting topics. For information on integrating Prometheus servers in a high availability (HA) configuration, see our [Prometheus high availability](/docs/prometheus-high-availability-ha) documentation.

## Set up the integration [#setup]

Go to the [Prometheus remote write setup launcher in New Relic One](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJwcm9tZXRoZXVzLXJlbW90ZS13cml0ZS1pbnRlZ3JhdGlvbi1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1wcm9tZXRoZXVzIn0=), then complete these steps.

<ButtonLink
  data-tessen="stitchedPathLinkClick"
  role="button"
  to="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJwcm9tZXRoZXVzLXJlbW90ZS13cml0ZS1pbnRlZ3JhdGlvbi1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1wcm9tZXRoZXVzIn0="
  variant="primary"
>
  Add Prometheus data
</ButtonLink>

1. Enter a name for the Prometheus server to be connected and your `remote_write` URL. **Important:** The name you enter for the server will create an attribute on your data. It will also be the name that identifies which Prometheus server is sending data to New Relic.
2. Add a new `remote_write` URL to your Prometheus YML file. Add this information under `global_config` in the file, at the same indentation level as the `global` section.

   Use the following syntax:

   **Prometheus v2.26 and newer**
   ``` 
   remote_write: 
   - url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?prometheus_server=<var>YOUR_DATA_SOURCE_NAME</var>  
     authorization:
     credentials: YOUR_LICENSE_KEY
   ```

   **Prometheus older than v2.26**
   ```
   remote_write: 
   - url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?prometheus_server=<var>YOUR_DATA_SOURCE_NAME</var>  
     bearer_token:<var>YOUR_LICENSE_KEY</var>
   ```
   
   OR 
   
   **Any Prometheus version**
   ```
   remote_write: 
   - url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?X-License-Key=<var>YOUR_LICENSE_KEY</var>&prometheus_server=<var>YOUR_DATA_SOURCE_NAME</var>
   ```
   *This approach is discouraged as it is preferable not to pass credentials in the url*

   **European Union accounts:** If you're connecting from the EU, use the following URL:

   ```
   https://metric-api.eu.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write
   ```

   **Kubernetes and Helm remote write integrations:** Add the remote write URL to your Helm [`values.yaml`](https://github.com/helm/charts/blob/c40486ab2eba0391119b7cc1509d6958fd21c31d/stable/prometheus/values.yaml#L631) file. Replace `remoteWrite: []` with two lines similar to the following example. Be sure to use your remote write URL and use indentation that matches the rest of the file:

   ```
   remoteWrite: 
   - url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?prometheus_server=<var>YOUR_DATA_SOURCE_NAME</var> 
     bearer_token:<var>YOUR_LICENSE_KEY</var>
   ```
3. Restart your Prometheus server.
4. View your data in the New Relic UI. For example, use the remote write [dashboard](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards) we automatically create when you set up your integration.

## Map Prometheus and New Relic metric types [#mapping]

The Prometheus remote write protocol does not include [metric type](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/understand-data/metric-data-type#metric-types) information or other helpful metric metadata when sending metrics to New Relic. Because the remote write protocol doesn't include this information, New Relic infers the metric type based on Prometheus naming conventions. Metrics not following these naming conventions may not be mapped correctly.

New Relic maps Prometheus metrics types into New Relic metric types based on Prometheus metric naming conventions as follows:

* `metricName_bucket` is stored as a New Relic count metric type.
* `metricName_count` is stored as a New Relic count metric type.
* `metricName_total` is stored as a New Relic count metric type.
* `metricName_sum` is stored as a New Relic summary metric type.

Everything else is stored as a New Relic gauge metric type.

## Override metric type mappings [#override-mapping]

If you have metrics that don't follow Prometheus naming conventions, you can configure remote-write to tag the metric with a `newrelic_metric_type` label that indicates the metric type. This label is stripped when received by New Relic.

**Example:** You have a counter metric named `my_counter`, which does not have our naming convention suffix of `_bucket`, `_count` or `_total`. In this situation, your metric would be identified as a gauge rather than a counter. To correct this, add the following relabel configuration to your `prometheus.yml`:

```
- url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?X-License-Key=...
  write_relabel_configs:
  - source_labels: [__name__]
    regex: ^my_counter$
    target_label: newrelic_metric_type
    replacement: "counter"
    action: replace
```

This rule matches any metric with the name `my_counter` and adds a `newrelic_metric_type` label that identifies it as a counter. You can use the following (case sensitive) values as the replacement value:

* counter
* gauge
* summary

When a `newrelic_metric_type` label is present on a metric received and set to one of the valid values, New Relic will assign the indicated type to the metric (and strip the label) before downstream consumption in the data pipeline. If you have multiple metrics that don't follow the above naming conventions, you can add multiple rules with each rule matching different source labels.

## Set allow or deny lists for sent metrics [#allow-deny]

If you need greater control over the data you send to New Relic, you can send a subset of your metrics. To do this, configure `remote-write` with the `write_relabel_configs` parameter with a subparameter `action` value of `keep` or `deny`.

In this example, you'll only send the metrics that match the regular expression. Unmatched metrics won't be sent. Alternatively, you can use `action: drop` to drop all of the metrics that match the regular expression.

```
- url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?X-License-Key=...
  write_relabel_configs:
  - source_labels: [__name__]
    regex: "coredns_(.*)|etcd_(.*)"
    action: keep
```

This Kubernetes example uses this Helm chart's [`values.yaml`](https://github.com/helm/charts/blob/c40486ab2eba0391119b7cc1509d6958fd21c31d/stable/prometheus/values.yaml#L631) file. If you're using a different Helm chart, please check its `remoteWrite` documentation (for example, some Helm files use camelcase `writeRelabelConfigs` instead).

```
  remoteWrite:
    - url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?X-License-Key=...
      write_relabel_configs:
      - source_labels: [__name__]
        regex: "coredns_(.*)|etcd_(.*)"
        action: keep
```

## Customize remote write behavior [#customize]

You can customize the following parameters if you are writing to more than one account in New Relic or are connecting more than one Prometheus data source to the same account in New Relic. For more information, see the [docs on remote write tuning](https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/remote_write/).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="x-license-key"
    title="X-License Key"
  >
    Your account's [license key](/docs/accounts/install-new-relic/account-setup/license-key) is not an API key. The license key is used for authentication and to identify which account to write data into. If you are configuring Prometheus to write into different New Relic accounts, use a different key on each remote write URL.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="prometheus_server-url-parameter"
    title={<><InlineCode>prometheus_server</InlineCode> URL parameter</>}
  >
    The `prometheus_server` parameter is a label or attribute used to add to stats that are written to [NRDB](https://newrelic.com/resources/ebooks/inside-nrdb-flexible-unified-database). Use this same label when [configuring your Grafana data source](/docs/configure-prometheus-data-source-grafana) to limit results to just those from a particular `prometheus_server`.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="optimize-throughput"
    title="Optimize throughput and memory consumption"
  >
    Remote write [increases the total memory consumption](https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/remote_write/#memory-usage) of your Prometheus servers.

    If you're experiencing issues we recommend the following:

    * Increase [`max_samples_per_send`](https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/remote_write/#max_samples_per_send) for higher throughput workloads, along a proportional increase in [`capacity`](https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/remote_write/#capacity).
    * If memory consumption is still a problem, try limiting the number of [`max_shards`](https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/remote_write/#max_shards) per server.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Troubleshoot error messages [#error-messages]

If you receive an integration error message from New Relic or error messages in your Prometheus server logs after restarting your Prometheus server, review our [remote write troubleshooting documentation](/docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/install-configure-remote-write/remote-write-errors-error-messages). This includes fixing common errors, such as missing or incorrect characters, bad requests, request entity too large, and rate limit errors.

## Remove the integration [#remove-integration]

When you remove the Prometheus remote write integration, this stops new data from flowing, but it will not purge or remove any historical data. To remove the integration, remove the configuration code snippet from your Prometheus YML file, then restart the server.
