src/content/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/onelogin-scimsso-application-configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: OneLogin SCIM/SSO application configuration
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - Automated user management
metaDescription: Configure the New Relic OneLogin SCIM/SSO application for your organization.
redirects:
  - /docs/onelogin-scim-assign-users-automated-provisioning-beta
  - /docs/onelogin-scim-assign-users-automated-provisioning
  - /docs/onelogin-scimsso-application-configuration
---

Our [automated user management](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/automated-user-provisioning-single-sign) allows allows you to import and configure your New Relic users from your identity provider via SCIM. This guide provides OneLogin-specific details on how to configure the New Relic OneLogin SCIM/SSO application.

## Requirements

Before using this guide, read the [automated user management requirements](/docs/assign-users-automated-provisioning-allow-single-sign#requirements).

Note that these instructions require going back and forth between your identity provider and New Relic. 

## Step 1. Create authentication domain and enable SCIM [#auth-domain]

For how to get to the New Relic authentication domain UI, see [Authentication domain UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/authentication-domains-saml-sso-scim-more/#manage-user-type-scim).

If you don't already have one, create a new authentication domain for your SCIM-provisioned users by clicking **+ Add new**. 

For that authentication domain, under **Source of users**, select **SCIM**. Copy and save the API token for later use. Note that this will be shown only once.

## Step 2. Set up OneLogin's New Relic app [#app]

Next, you'll be setting up OneLogin's New Relic SAML/SCIM app. To set this up:

1. Go to the OneLogin web site and sign in with an account that has administrator permissions.
2. From the OneLogin home page, click on **Administration**.
3. From the OneLogin Administration page, choose the **Applications** menu.
4. From the OneLogin Applications page, click on **Add App**.
5. In the search field on the OneLogin Find Applications page, enter "New Relic by organization" (not "New Relic by account") and then click on the application when it shows in the search results.
6. From the **Add New Relic by Organization** page, click on **Save**.

## Step 3. Configure SCIM/SSO application [#configure-application]

Configuration for the New Relic SCIM/SSO application is split across several forms. This section describes the different forms that need to be configured.

From the **New Relic by organization** application page, fill in the following forms:

### Fill in the configuration form [#config-form]

In the left pane, select **Configuration** and complete the following:

1. Get the **authentication domain ID** (top of [New Relic's authentication domain UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/authentication-domains-saml-sso-scim-more) and **SCIM bearer token** (in authentication domain UI as "SAML 2.0 endpoint) and input them into the appropriate fields in the OneLogin app.
2. Leave the **API Connection** disabled until all the configuration described in the following sections is completed. After completing all the configuration, enable the connection.

### Fill in the rules form [#rules-form]

Configure the user groups to send to New Relic using rules. OneLogin provides this [documentation](https://developers.onelogin.com/scim/create-app#scim_rules) which describes how to use rules to provision groups for users.

Decide what type of groups to send along with your users to New Relic. If your organization is using Active Directory or LDAP, you might choose to use security groups to define your users capabilities at New Relic. Another reasonable group choice is OneLogin role.

On the New Relic side, your user's groups define their capabilities. The groups that are sent with users will be mapped to New Relic capability groups.

Note that at the moment, there is no way to delete a group from the OneLogin side. This is a known limitation from OneLogin. Removing or changing rules does not delete groups already sent to New Relic. If you wish to no longer use a group, removing all the users from the group will prevent it from being used at New Relic.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="rule-example"
    title="A rule that only uses actions"
  >
    Here's an example rule configuration does not use any conditions. The conditions are left empty to avoid applying any filtering logic to the users. All users will be sent in this example. If you want to send only a subset of users, you need to specify conditions to select the subset.

    ![Screen capture showing the OneLogin Rules detail page about conditions and actions.](./images/onelogin_rules_conditions_actions.png "onelogin_rules_conditions_actions.png")

    The actions describe where to retrieve the value for the group name and how to parse the value. In this example, we retrieve the group name from the OneLogin role field.

    The OneLogin role field only has a single value, but sometimes the source for the group name contains other fields besides group name. In other words, some sources give you a list of fields and values and only one of those fields has the value you want to use. In this case, you can insert a regular expression in **with value that matches** field to find and extract the value for the group name.

    This example uses the entire value of the **For each** field for the group name.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Fill in the provisioning form [#provisioning-form]

In the left pane, select **Provisioning** and complete the following:

![Screen capture showing the OneLogin Provisioning page.](./images/onelogin_provisioning_form.png "onelogin_provisioning_form.png")

1. Check **Enable** provisioning.
2. Under **Require admin approval before this action is performed**, uncheck these options:

   * **Create user**
   * **Delete user**
   * **Update user**

   <Callout variant="tip">
     If you do not uncheck these options, SCIM provisioning requests will not be sent until an administrator approves them.
   </Callout>
3. Set **When users are deleted in OneLogin, or the user's app access is removed, perform the below action** to **Delete**.
4. Set **When user accounts are suspended in OneLogin, perform the following action** to **Suspend**.

### Fill in the Parameters form [#parameters-form]

In the left pane, select **Parameters** and complete the following:

1. Click **Groups** field.

   ![Screenshot of the OneLogin Parameter form showing which fields to configure.](./images/onelogin_parameter_form_general.png "onelogin_parameter_form_general.png")
2. Check **Include in User Provisioning**.

   ![Screenshot showing the OneLogin Parameter details page.](./images/onelogin_parameter_form_specific.png "onelogin_parameter_form_specific.png")
3. Click **Save**.

### Save your changes [#save]

After you complete the above forms, click **Save**. Then, return to the **Configuration** form and enable the API connection.

### Step 4. Assign users [#configure-sso]

After New Relic SCIM/SSO application configuration is finished and New Relic side configuration is finished, you can begin to assign users to the application.

Assign the New Relic SCIM/SSO application to a user: 

1. Go to the OneLogin web site and sign in with an account that has administrator permissions.
2. From the OneLogin home page, click **Administration**.
3. From the OneLogin Administration page, choose the **Users** menu Users item.
4. From the OneLogin Users page, click the user you want to assign the application to.
5. From the user's page, click **Applications**.
6. From the user's application page, click the plus sign and select the "New Relic by Organization" application.
7. Important: Updating users' time zones is important, as charts and other user assets display times. Default is UMT. From the **Edit New Relic by Organization login for user** page, enter the user's time zone in IANA Time Zone database format (also known as the Olson time zone database format) and click **Save**.
8. If you're using **Roles** to define your New Relic capability groups, from the user's application page, click the proper role(s) for the user and then click **Save User**.

### Step 5. Set your users' user type [#user-type]

When your users are provisioned in New Relic, you're able to see them in the [**User management** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-ui-and-tasks#where). 

If you're adding users to New Relic via SCIM but **not** managing their [user type](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type) via SCIM, they start out as [basic users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type). To upgrade users, you have two options: 

* Use the [User management UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-ui-and-tasks#edit-user-type) to edit users. 
* [Configure the OneLogin app to manage user type.](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/authentication-domains-saml-sso-scim-more/#manage-user-type-scim)  

## Step 6. Assign access grants [#assign-users]

Once these steps are completed, you should be able to see your users in New Relic by going to the [User management UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-ui-and-tasks#where). Now that your users are present in New Relic, you must grant them access to specific roles on specific accounts. If this is not done, your users don't yet have access to New Relic. To learn how to do this, see: 

* [How access grants work](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-concepts#understand-concepts)
* The [user management tutorial](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/tutorial-add-new-user-groups-roles-new-relic-one-user-model/) 

## Step 7. Configure SAML SSO [#saml]

To enable SAML SSO for your users, see the [SAML instructions](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/authentication-domains-saml-sso-scim-more/#authentication).

Commit message:

fix(scim & accounts): add ability to set timezone

src/content/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/onelogin-scimsso-application-configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: OneLogin SCIM/SSO application configuration
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - Automated user management
metaDescription: Configure the New Relic OneLogin SCIM/SSO application for your organization.
redirects:
  - /docs/onelogin-scim-assign-users-automated-provisioning-beta
  - /docs/onelogin-scim-assign-users-automated-provisioning
  - /docs/onelogin-scimsso-application-configuration
---

Our [automated user management](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/automated-user-provisioning-single-sign) allows allows you to import and configure your New Relic users from your identity provider via SCIM. This guide provides OneLogin-specific details on how to configure the New Relic OneLogin SCIM/SSO application.

## Requirements

Before using this guide, read the [automated user management requirements](/docs/assign-users-automated-provisioning-allow-single-sign#requirements).

Note that these instructions require going back and forth between your identity provider and New Relic. 

## Step 1. Create authentication domain and enable SCIM [#auth-domain]

For how to get to the New Relic authentication domain UI, see [Authentication domain UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/authentication-domains-saml-sso-scim-more/#manage-user-type-scim).

If you don't already have one, create a new authentication domain for your SCIM-provisioned users by clicking **+ Add new**. 

For that authentication domain, under **Source of users**, select **SCIM**. Copy and save the API token for later use. Note that this will be shown only once.

## Step 2. Set up OneLogin's New Relic app [#app]

Next, you'll be setting up OneLogin's New Relic SAML/SCIM app. To set this up:

1. Go to the OneLogin web site and sign in with an account that has administrator permissions.
2. From the OneLogin home page, click on **Administration**.
3. From the OneLogin Administration page, choose the **Applications** menu.
4. From the OneLogin Applications page, click on **Add App**.
5. In the search field on the OneLogin Find Applications page, enter "New Relic by organization" (not "New Relic by account") and then click on the application when it shows in the search results.
6. From the **Add New Relic by Organization** page, click on **Save**.

## Step 3. Configure SCIM/SSO application [#configure-application]

Configuration for the New Relic SCIM/SSO application is split across several forms. This section describes the different forms that need to be configured.

From the **New Relic by organization** application page, fill in the following forms:

### Fill in the configuration form [#config-form]

In the left pane, select **Configuration** and complete the following:

1. Get the **authentication domain ID** (top of [New Relic's authentication domain UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/authentication-domains-saml-sso-scim-more) and **SCIM bearer token** (in authentication domain UI as "SAML 2.0 endpoint) and input them into the appropriate fields in the OneLogin app.
2. Leave the **API Connection** disabled until all the configuration described in the following sections is completed. After completing all the configuration, enable the connection.

### Fill in the rules form [#rules-form]

Configure the user groups to send to New Relic using rules. OneLogin provides this [documentation](https://developers.onelogin.com/scim/create-app#scim_rules) which describes how to use rules to provision groups for users.

Decide what type of groups to send along with your users to New Relic. If your organization is using Active Directory or LDAP, you might choose to use security groups to define your users capabilities at New Relic. Another reasonable group choice is OneLogin role.

On the New Relic side, your user's groups define their capabilities. The groups that are sent with users will be mapped to New Relic capability groups.

Note that at the moment, there is no way to delete a group from the OneLogin side. This is a known limitation from OneLogin. Removing or changing rules does not delete groups already sent to New Relic. If you wish to no longer use a group, removing all the users from the group will prevent it from being used at New Relic.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="rule-example"
    title="A rule that only uses actions"
  >
    Here's an example rule configuration does not use any conditions. The conditions are left empty to avoid applying any filtering logic to the users. All users will be sent in this example. If you want to send only a subset of users, you need to specify conditions to select the subset.

    ![Screen capture showing the OneLogin Rules detail page about conditions and actions.](./images/onelogin_rules_conditions_actions.png "onelogin_rules_conditions_actions.png")

    The actions describe where to retrieve the value for the group name and how to parse the value. In this example, we retrieve the group name from the OneLogin role field.

    The OneLogin role field only has a single value, but sometimes the source for the group name contains other fields besides group name. In other words, some sources give you a list of fields and values and only one of those fields has the value you want to use. In this case, you can insert a regular expression in **with value that matches** field to find and extract the value for the group name.

    This example uses the entire value of the **For each** field for the group name.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Fill in the provisioning form [#provisioning-form]

In the left pane, select **Provisioning** and complete the following:

![Screen capture showing the OneLogin Provisioning page.](./images/onelogin_provisioning_form.png "onelogin_provisioning_form.png")

1. Check **Enable** provisioning.
2. Under **Require admin approval before this action is performed**, uncheck these options:

   * **Create user**
   * **Delete user**
   * **Update user**

   <Callout variant="tip">
     If you do not uncheck these options, SCIM provisioning requests will not be sent until an administrator approves them.
   </Callout>
3. Set **When users are deleted in OneLogin, or the user's app access is removed, perform the below action** to **Delete**.
4. Set **When user accounts are suspended in OneLogin, perform the following action** to **Suspend**.

### Fill in the Parameters form [#parameters-form]

In the left pane, select **Parameters** and complete the following:

1. Click **Groups** field.

   ![Screenshot of the OneLogin Parameter form showing which fields to configure.](./images/onelogin_parameter_form_general.png "onelogin_parameter_form_general.png")
2. Check **Include in User Provisioning**.

   ![Screenshot showing the OneLogin Parameter details page.](./images/onelogin_parameter_form_specific.png "onelogin_parameter_form_specific.png")
3. Click **Save**.

### Save your changes [#save]

After you complete the above forms, click **Save**. Then, return to the **Configuration** form and enable the API connection.

### Step 4. Assign users [#configure-sso]

After New Relic SCIM/SSO application configuration is finished and New Relic side configuration is finished, you can begin to assign users to the application.

Assign the New Relic SCIM/SSO application to a user: 

1. Go to the OneLogin web site and sign in with an account that has administrator permissions.
2. From the OneLogin home page, click **Administration**.
3. From the OneLogin Administration page, choose the **Users** menu Users item.
4. From the OneLogin Users page, click the user you want to assign the application to.
5. From the user's page, click **Applications**.
6. From the user's application page, click the plus sign and select the "New Relic by Organization" application.
7. Important: Updating users' time zones is important because [many New Relic features make use of that setting](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/default-time-zone-setting). The default format is UMT. From the **Edit New Relic by Organization login for user** page, enter the user's time zone in IANA Time Zone database format (also known as the Olson time zone database format) and click **Save**. Your users also have the ability to [set their own time zone](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/default-time-zone-setting). 
8. If you're using **Roles** to define your New Relic capability groups, from the user's application page, click the proper role(s) for the user and then click **Save User**.

### Step 5. Set your users' user type [#user-type]

When your users are provisioned in New Relic, you're able to see them in the [**User management** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-ui-and-tasks#where). 

If you're adding users to New Relic via SCIM but **not** managing their [user type](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type) via SCIM, they start out as [basic users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type). To upgrade users, you have two options: 

* Use the [User management UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-ui-and-tasks#edit-user-type) to edit users. 
* [Configure the OneLogin app to manage user type.](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/authentication-domains-saml-sso-scim-more/#manage-user-type-scim)  

## Step 6. Assign access grants [#assign-users]

Once these steps are completed, you should be able to see your users in New Relic by going to the [User management UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-ui-and-tasks#where). Now that your users are present in New Relic, you must grant them access to specific roles on specific accounts. If this is not done, your users don't yet have access to New Relic. To learn how to do this, see: 

* [How access grants work](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-management-concepts#understand-concepts)
* The [user management tutorial](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/tutorial-add-new-user-groups-roles-new-relic-one-user-model/) 

## Step 7. Configure SAML SSO [#saml]

To enable SAML SSO for your users, see the [SAML instructions](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/authentication-domains-saml-sso-scim-more/#authentication).
