src/content/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/roles-permissions-automated-user-management.mdx, before:

---
title: Example of identity provider groups mapping to New Relic access grants 
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - Automated user management
metaDescription: 'For New Relic automated user management (AUM), an example of how identity provider groups map over to New Relic access grants.'
redirects:
  - /docs/roles-permissions-automated-user-management
---

With [automated user management](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/automated-user-provisioning-single-sign) (AUM), your users and groups in your identity provider (like OneLogin or Okta) are synchronized with New Relic.

## How groups work with your users [#group-example]

When using [automated user management](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/automated-user-provisioning-single-sign), all group administration happens in your identity provider. If your existing groups logically map to access in New Relic, we recommend sending your existing groups. This makes providing and changing access to New Relic from your identity provider easy.

![Diagram showing the relationship between roles and permissions](./images/Roles%26Permissions.png "Roles and permissions")

<figcaption>
An example of how the user groups in your identity provider might map over to [access grants](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts) in New Relic, which assign a group access to a specific role (default or customer) on a specific account. 
</figcaption>

In the above example, let’s focus on the Engineers group. Via SCIM, New Relic will receive the two user records as well as the information that they belong to the Engineers group. In this example, the configuration would be: the two Engineer users have the [**Read only** role](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model#standard-roles) on Account 1, the [**Standard user**](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model#standard-roles) role on Account 2, and the [**All product admin**](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model#standard-roles) role on Account 3.

This access is given by creating three [access grants](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts) in New Relic:

* Access grant assigning the role **Read only** to the group **Engineers** on Account 1
* Access grant assigning the role **Standard user** to the group **Engineers** on Account 2
* Access grant assigning the role **All product admin** to the group **Engineers** on Account 3

To learn more about how access grants work, see [User management concepts](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts). 

For tutorials on creating new groups and custom roles, see [User management tutorials](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/tutorial-add-new-user-groups-roles-new-relic-one-user-model/).

Commit message:

fix(aum): improvements to 'create groups' docs

src/content/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/roles-permissions-automated-user-management.mdx, after:

---
title: "Automated user management: How identity provider groups map to New Relic groups"
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - Automated user management
metaDescription: 'For New Relic automated user management (AUM), an example of how identity provider groups map over to New Relic access grants.'
redirects:
  - /docs/roles-permissions-automated-user-management
---

With [automated user management](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/automated-user-provisioning-single-sign) (AUM), your users and groups in your identity provider (like OneLogin or Okta) are synchronized with New Relic.

## How groups work [#group-example]

When using [automated user management](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/automated-user-provisioning-single-sign), you create groups of users in your identity provider service. Later, on the New Relic side, you'll create [access grants](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts), which essentially state "Give this group access to this New Relic role on this New Relic account." 

![Diagram showing the relationship between roles and permissions](./images/Roles%26Permissions.png "Roles and permissions")

<figcaption>
An example of how the user groups in your identity provider might map over to [access grants](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts) in New Relic, which assign a group access to a specific role (default or customer) on a specific account. 
</figcaption>

In the above example, let’s focus on the Engineers group. Via SCIM, New Relic will receive the two user records as well as the information that they belong to the Engineers group. In this example, the configuration would be: the two Engineer users have the [**Read only** role](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model#standard-roles) on Account 1, the [**Standard user**](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model#standard-roles) role on Account 2, and the [**All product admin**](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model#standard-roles) role on Account 3.

This access is given by creating three [access grants](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts) in New Relic:

* Access grant assigning the role **Read only** to the group **Engineers** on Account 1
* Access grant assigning the role **Standard user** to the group **Engineers** on Account 2
* Access grant assigning the role **All product admin** to the group **Engineers** on Account 3

To learn more about how access grants work, see [User management concepts](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts). 

For tutorials on creating new groups and custom roles, see [User management tutorials](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/tutorial-add-new-user-groups-roles-new-relic-one-user-model/).
