---
title: 'Anomaly Alert Seasonality Configuration Options Now Available'
summary: 'Configure seasonality on your anomaly alerts, or let New Relic detect seasonal trends for you!'
releaseDate: '2025-04-10'
learnMoreLink: 'https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/alerts/create-alert/set-thresholds/anomaly-detection/#seasonality'
---

New Relic now offers the option to specify what seasonal trend (if any) to apply to each of the signals’ models in an anomaly alert condition.  Previously, New Relic calculated seasonal trends – hourly, weekly, daily, or weekly – based on the historical data, and as time went on, with more data, might make changes to the seasonality applied.  Now, if a user is setting up an alert condition on a homogenous data set (either no facet, or a facet where the seasonal trend is the same across each of the faceted signals), then the user can specify the type of seasonality that should be applied to train the anomaly models for this condition.  Specifying the seasonality at the time of configuration may enable the models for that condition to become fully trained faster. 

Users will now see the following options when configuring anomaly alert conditions:
New Relic calculation (default): Automatically determines the seasonality for each signal based on several factors, including the age of data, consistency of data, and regular fluctuations.
* Hourly: Applies an hourly pattern to all signals within the condition for anomaly detection.
* Daily: Applies a daily pattern to all signals within the condition for anomaly detection.
* Weekly: Applies a weekly pattern to all signals within the condition for anomaly detection.
* None: Disables seasonality entirely, ensuring no seasonal patterns are considered when evaluating signals.

![Seasonality in the alert configuration form] (/images/seasonality.webp "Seasonality in the alert configuration form")

