src/content/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/nerdgraph-nrql-tutorial.mdx, before:

---
title: "NerdGraph tutorial: Query your data using NRQL"
tags:
  - APIs
  - NerdGraph
  - Examples
metaDescription: Use New Relic NerdGraph to query data using New Relic Query Language (NRQL).
redirects:
  - /docs/use-new-relic-graphql-query-data-nrql
  - /docs/query-nrql-through-new-relic-graphql-api
  - /docs/apis/graphql-api/tutorials/query-nrql-through-new-relic-graphql-api
  - /node/36881
  - /docs/apis/graphql-api/tutorials/nerdgraph-graphiql-nrql-tutorial
  - /docs/query-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/query-tools/nrql-api-queries
---

You can use the [New Relic NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer](/docs/introduction-new-relic-graphql) to make [New Relic Query Language (NRQL)](/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/using-nrql/introduction-nrql) queries. To learn how to construct these queries and see responses, go to the NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer at [api.newrelic.com/graphiql](https://api.newrelic.com/graphiql). This document explains some of the available functions for NRQL queries.

## Basic NRQL queries with NerdGraph [#basic-queries]

To make NRQL queries using NerdGraph:

1. Go to the NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer at [api.newrelic.com/graphiql](https://api.newrelic.com/graphiql).
2. Pass the NRQL query as a string argument to the NRQL object, and include the `results` field in your NerdGraph query.

For example, to get a count of all [transaction events](/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/default-data/apm-default-event-attributes-insights#transaction-event) in the last hour, use the following query:

```
{
   actor {
      account(id: <var>YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID)</var> {
         nrql(query: "<a href="/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#state-select">SELECT</a> count(*) <a href="/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-from">FROM</a> <a href="/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/default-data/apm-default-event-attributes-insights#transaction-event">Transaction</a> <a href="/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-since">SINCE</a> 1 HOUR AGO") {
            results
         }
      }
   }
}
```

This NerdGraph query example returns the following results:

```
{
   "data": {
      "actor": {
         "account": {
            "nrql": {
               "results": [
                 {
                  "count": <mark>1000</mark>
                 }
                ]
            }
         }
      }
   }
}
```

The actual value of the count varies depending on your transaction data. Use the NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer to experiment with queries.

## Create embeddable charts [#embeddable-charts]

In addition to returning raw data, you can fetch embeddable chart links for the data to use in an application. For example, instead of a single count of [transaction](/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/default-data/apm-default-event-attributes-insights#transaction-event), you can create a [chart](/docs/insights/use-insights-ui/manage-dashboards/chart-types#widget-types) that illustrates a timeseries of bucketed counts over time. Add `TIMESERIES` to your query with `embeddedChartUrl`:

```
{
   actor {
      account(id: <var>YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID)</var> {
         nrql(query: "<a href="/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#state-select">SELECT</a> count(*) from <a href="/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/default-data/apm-default-event-attributes-insights#transaction-event">Transaction</a> <a href="/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-timeseries">TIMESERIES</a>") {
            <mark>embeddedChartUrl</mark>
         }
      }
   }
}
```

This NerdGraph query example returns the URL for the chart in the following response:

```
{
   "data": {
      "actor": {
         "account": {
            "nrql": {
               "<mark>embeddedChartUrl</mark>": "https://chart-embed.service.newrelic.com/charts/<var>EMBEDDABLE-CHART-ID</var>"
            }
         }
      }
   }
}
```

If you view the embedded chart URL using any standard HTTP client, it returns an image showing a visualization of the response to the query you submitted. These charts follow the same [embedded chart rules](/docs/using-new-relic/user-interface-functions/share-your-data/embed-charts-external-webpages#rules) as embedded charts that are created elsewhere. To change the style of the data visualization, pass a `chartType` argument to `embeddedChartUrl`.

## Suggested facets [#suggest-facets]

When using NerdGraph to explore your data, you can use the `suggestedFacets` field to return suggested attributes for use in [faceted NRQL queries](/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-facet).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="suggested-facet-rules"
    title="Rules governing suggested facets"
  >
    Here are some of the rules that govern what attributes are suggested:

    * **Built-in suggestions.** Each [event type](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/getting-started/glossary#event) comes with its own set of recommended attributes. These are attributes chosen by New Relic for their importance and popularity.
    * **Usage-based suggestions.** Some attribute suggestions are based on the queries that have been frequently used by your account. These suggestions can include custom attributes.
    * **Role restriction.** [Restricted users](/docs/accounts/accounts/roles-permissions/users-roles) do not have access to account-related facet suggestions.

    To disable the use of account data for determining suggested queries, [contact Support](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/getting-started/find-help-or-file-support-ticket#support_tickets).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="example-suggested-query"
    title="Example of returning suggested attributes"
  >
    Here's an example of returning suggested attributes for faceting [transaction](/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/default-data/apm-default-event-attributes-insights#transaction-event) counts. The response suggests the `host` attribute. Faceting by `host` can reveal that one host is servicing more requests than other hosts.

    ```
    {
       actor {
          account(id: <var>YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID</var>) {
             nrql(query: "<a href="/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#state-select">SELECT</a> count(*) from <a href="https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/default-data/apm-default-event-attributes-insights#transaction-event">Transaction</a> <a href="/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-timeseries">TIMESERIES</a>") {
                <mark>suggestedFacets</mark> {
                   attributes
                }
             }
          }
       }
    }
    ```

    This NerdGraph query example returns a response similar to this:

    ```
    {
       "data": {
          "actor": {
             "account": {
                "nrql": {
                   "<mark>suggestedFacets</mark>": [
           	          "attributes": ["host"]
                   ]
                }
             }
          }
       }
    }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

Commit message:

link to NRQL Rate Limits from NerdGraph NRQL Tutorial

src/content/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/nerdgraph-nrql-tutorial.mdx, after:

---
title: "NerdGraph tutorial: Query your data using NRQL"
tags:
  - APIs
  - NerdGraph
  - Examples
metaDescription: Use New Relic NerdGraph to query data using New Relic Query Language (NRQL).
redirects:
  - /docs/use-new-relic-graphql-query-data-nrql
  - /docs/query-nrql-through-new-relic-graphql-api
  - /docs/apis/graphql-api/tutorials/query-nrql-through-new-relic-graphql-api
  - /node/36881
  - /docs/apis/graphql-api/tutorials/nerdgraph-graphiql-nrql-tutorial
  - /docs/query-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/query-tools/nrql-api-queries
---

You can use the [New Relic NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer](/docs/introduction-new-relic-graphql) to make [New Relic Query Language (NRQL)](/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/using-nrql/introduction-nrql) queries. To learn how to construct these queries and see responses, go to the NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer at [api.newrelic.com/graphiql](https://api.newrelic.com/graphiql). This document explains some of the available functions for NRQL queries.

NRQL queries made through NerdGraph are subject to [NRQL Query Rate Limits](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/rate-limits-nrql-queries).

## Basic NRQL queries with NerdGraph [#basic-queries]

To make NRQL queries using NerdGraph:

1. Go to the NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer at [api.newrelic.com/graphiql](https://api.newrelic.com/graphiql).
2. Pass the NRQL query as a string argument to the NRQL object, and include the `results` field in your NerdGraph query.

For example, to get a count of all [transaction events](/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/default-data/apm-default-event-attributes-insights#transaction-event) in the last hour, use the following query:

```
{
   actor {
      account(id: <var>YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID)</var> {
         nrql(query: "<a href="/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#state-select">SELECT</a> count(*) <a href="/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-from">FROM</a> <a href="/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/default-data/apm-default-event-attributes-insights#transaction-event">Transaction</a> <a href="/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-since">SINCE</a> 1 HOUR AGO") {
            results
         }
      }
   }
}
```

This NerdGraph query example returns the following results:

```
{
   "data": {
      "actor": {
         "account": {
            "nrql": {
               "results": [
                 {
                  "count": <mark>1000</mark>
                 }
                ]
            }
         }
      }
   }
}
```

The actual value of the count varies depending on your transaction data. Use the NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer to experiment with queries.

## Create embeddable charts [#embeddable-charts]

In addition to returning raw data, you can fetch embeddable chart links for the data to use in an application. For example, instead of a single count of [transaction](/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/default-data/apm-default-event-attributes-insights#transaction-event), you can create a [chart](/docs/insights/use-insights-ui/manage-dashboards/chart-types#widget-types) that illustrates a timeseries of bucketed counts over time. Add `TIMESERIES` to your query with `embeddedChartUrl`:

```
{
   actor {
      account(id: <var>YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID)</var> {
         nrql(query: "<a href="/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#state-select">SELECT</a> count(*) from <a href="/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/default-data/apm-default-event-attributes-insights#transaction-event">Transaction</a> <a href="/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-timeseries">TIMESERIES</a>") {
            <mark>embeddedChartUrl</mark>
         }
      }
   }
}
```

This NerdGraph query example returns the URL for the chart in the following response:

```
{
   "data": {
      "actor": {
         "account": {
            "nrql": {
               "<mark>embeddedChartUrl</mark>": "https://chart-embed.service.newrelic.com/charts/<var>EMBEDDABLE-CHART-ID</var>"
            }
         }
      }
   }
}
```

If you view the embedded chart URL using any standard HTTP client, it returns an image showing a visualization of the response to the query you submitted. These charts follow the same [embedded chart rules](/docs/using-new-relic/user-interface-functions/share-your-data/embed-charts-external-webpages#rules) as embedded charts that are created elsewhere. To change the style of the data visualization, pass a `chartType` argument to `embeddedChartUrl`.

## Suggested facets [#suggest-facets]

When using NerdGraph to explore your data, you can use the `suggestedFacets` field to return suggested attributes for use in [faceted NRQL queries](/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-facet).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="suggested-facet-rules"
    title="Rules governing suggested facets"
  >
    Here are some of the rules that govern what attributes are suggested:

    * **Built-in suggestions.** Each [event type](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/getting-started/glossary#event) comes with its own set of recommended attributes. These are attributes chosen by New Relic for their importance and popularity.
    * **Usage-based suggestions.** Some attribute suggestions are based on the queries that have been frequently used by your account. These suggestions can include custom attributes.
    * **Role restriction.** [Restricted users](/docs/accounts/accounts/roles-permissions/users-roles) do not have access to account-related facet suggestions.

    To disable the use of account data for determining suggested queries, [contact Support](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/getting-started/find-help-or-file-support-ticket#support_tickets).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="example-suggested-query"
    title="Example of returning suggested attributes"
  >
    Here's an example of returning suggested attributes for faceting [transaction](/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/default-data/apm-default-event-attributes-insights#transaction-event) counts. The response suggests the `host` attribute. Faceting by `host` can reveal that one host is servicing more requests than other hosts.

    ```
    {
       actor {
          account(id: <var>YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID</var>) {
             nrql(query: "<a href="/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#state-select">SELECT</a> count(*) from <a href="https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/default-data/apm-default-event-attributes-insights#transaction-event">Transaction</a> <a href="/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-timeseries">TIMESERIES</a>") {
                <mark>suggestedFacets</mark> {
                   attributes
                }
             }
          }
       }
    }
    ```

    This NerdGraph query example returns a response similar to this:

    ```
    {
       "data": {
          "actor": {
             "account": {
                "nrql": {
                   "<mark>suggestedFacets</mark>": [
           	          "attributes": ["host"]
                   ]
                }
             }
          }
       }
    }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>
