src/content/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: "Getting Started with Service Architecture Intelligence"
metaDescription: "Learn more about Service Architecture Intelligence in New Relic One."
tags: ["service architecture intelligence", "New Relic One", "service catalog", "scorecards", "catalog", "inventory catalog", "repository catalog", "team"]
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---


<Callout title="preview">
    We're still working on this feature, but we'd love for you to try it out!

    This feature is currently provided as part of a preview program pursuant to our [pre-release policies](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/new-relic-pre-release-policy).
</Callout>


Service Architecture Intelligence provides a centralized view of your organization's services and operations. It enhances productivity by offering tools for effective resource management, operational optimization, and compliance assurance. The Service Architecture Intelligence has integrated various capabilities, including team management, system observability, performance evaluation, and infrastructure visualization, to streamline processes and improve collaboration across teams.

## Capabilities [#capabilities]

The Service Architecture Intelligence offers the following capabilities:

- [Team](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/teams/teams): New Relic Teams connects the entities you monitor to the teams that own them. This feature allows you to create or import teams into the New Relic platform, assign entities to teams, and manage team-related tasks efficiently. 

- [Catalogs](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/catalogs/catalogs): New Relic Catalogs provide centralized inventories of high-value entities, complete with details such as ownership, health, and compliance status. Use Catalogs to gain an understanding of your system's health, identify areas for improvement, and take steps to enhance performance within a unified platform. 

    - [Applications catalog:](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/catalogs/applications-catalog) The Application Catalog presents a consolidated view of application entities, aiding in the observability and management of applications across your organization. This unified perspective supports informed decision-making, helps to streamline workflows, and fosters team collaboration.
    - [Repository catalog:](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/catalogs/repositoryCatalog) The Repository Catalog consolidates the oversight of an organization's repositories, promoting transparency and cooperation among teams. It provides stakeholders with the means to efficiently locate and understand repositories, their contents, and their status, as well as to identify ownership. 

- [Scorecards:](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/scorecards/getting-started) New Relic Scorecards evaluate team or group performance against predefined rules and custom metrics. They provide a standardized and structured approach to software development, helping organizations adhere to a well-defined engineering strategy. 

- [Maps:](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/maps/advanced-maps) The new map experience provides a unified and integrated view of your cloud estate, allowing seamless navigation and exploration of services and infrastructure. It integrates tracing, infrastructure, and performance data into a cohesive experience, addressing limitations of the previous service map.

Commit message:

fix(SAI): Update getting started
Fixes some minor inaccuracies:

- SAI is now GA and the public preview callout no longer applied
- Teams capability was linked as "Team" (singular)
- Catalogs had details of the core catalogs Applications Repository, but was missing a bullet for Infrastructure

src/content/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: "Getting Started with Service Architecture Intelligence"
metaDescription: "Learn more about Service Architecture Intelligence in New Relic One."
tags: ["service architecture intelligence", "New Relic One", "service catalog", "scorecards", "catalog", "inventory catalog", "repository catalog", "infrastructure catalog" "team"]
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---


Service Architecture Intelligence provides a centralized view of your organization's services and operations. It enhances productivity by offering tools for effective resource management, operational optimization, and compliance assurance. The Service Architecture Intelligence has integrated various capabilities, including team management, system observability, performance evaluation, and infrastructure visualization, to streamline processes and improve collaboration across teams.

## Capabilities [#capabilities]

The Service Architecture Intelligence offers the following capabilities:

- [Teams](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/teams/teams): New Relic Teams connects the entities you monitor to the teams that own them. This feature allows you to create or import teams into the New Relic platform, assign entities to teams, and manage team-related tasks efficiently. 

- [Catalogs](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/catalogs/catalogs): New Relic Catalogs provide centralized inventories of high-value entities, complete with details such as ownership, health, and compliance status. Use Catalogs to gain an understanding of your system's health, identify areas for improvement, and take steps to enhance performance within a unified platform. 

    - [Applications catalog:](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/catalogs/applications-catalog) The Application Catalog presents a consolidated view of application entities, aiding in the observability and management of applications across your organization. This unified perspective supports informed decision-making, helps to streamline workflows, and fosters team collaboration.
    - [Repository catalog:](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/catalogs/repositoryCatalog) The Repository Catalog consolidates the oversight of an organization's repositories, promoting transparency and cooperation among teams. It provides stakeholders with the means to efficiently locate and understand repositories, their contents, and their status, as well as to identify ownership.
    - [Infrastructure catalog:](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/catalogs/repositoryCatalog) The Infrastructure Catalog provides a complete inventory of all your infrastructure entities. Use it to manage resources, accelerate root cause analysis, and identify observability gaps.

- [Scorecards:](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/scorecards/getting-started) New Relic Scorecards evaluate team or group performance against predefined rules and custom metrics. They provide a standardized and structured approach to software development, helping organizations adhere to a well-defined engineering strategy. 

- [Maps:](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/maps/advanced-maps) The new map experience provides a unified and integrated view of your cloud estate, allowing seamless navigation and exploration of services and infrastructure. It integrates tracing, infrastructure, and performance data into a cohesive experience, addressing limitations of the previous service map.
