src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing.mdx, before:

---
title: 'New Relic One pricing model details'
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - New Relic One pricing and billing
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: An explanation of how the usage-based New Relic One pricing model works.
redirects:
  - /docs/new-relic-one-pricing-billing
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/new-relic-one-pricing-billing
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/pricing-billing
---

This is an explanation of the New Relic One pricing model, which is a usage-based model that bills on data ingest and your number of billable users. Not sure which pricing model you're on? See [Overview of pricing](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model).

## How New Relic One pricing works [#how-pricing-works]

Our New Relic One pricing model is meant to be simple and to provide a lot of value even when you're [using New Relic for free](#free). Our pricing model bills on these factors:

* Your [ingested data](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/data-ingest-billing). We bill on data ingested, no matter the type, making your billing easy to understand. 100 GBs per month is free. US$0.25 per GB ingested above that. 
* Your [billable user count](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing). Core users and full platform users are billable. Basic users are free. Your per-user cost depends on your [pricing edition](https://newrelic.com/pricing) (Standard, Pro, or Enterprise). Standard edition includes one free full platform user. 

For an overview of New Relic One pricing and more details about what the different editions get you, see our [main pricing page](https://newrelic.com/pricing). 

## View usage in the UI [#billing-usage-ui]

For how to find billing and usage information in the UI, see [Billing-related UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/introduction-account-settings).
 
 <Callout variant="important">
If you’re on our [original user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-user-models): The UI view of billable users may differ from how many users you see in the **Users and roles** UI. For more information, see [User count discrepancy](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/users-roles-original-user-model/#full-user-count).
</Callout>

## Data ingest calculation [#usage-calculation]

Want to understand how data ingest is calculated? See [Data ingest calculation](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/data-ingest-billing).

Want to manage your data ingest? See [Manage data](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-data-coming-new-relic).

## User count calculation [#user-count]

To learn how billable users are calculated, see [User count calculation](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing).

## Usage plans and billing scheduling [#usage-plans]

When you’re on New Relic One pricing, you can have one of two usage plans that dictate how billing is scheduled:
* **Pay-as-you-go**: This usage plan bills at the end of each calendar month. There are no commitments and you can cancel at any time. When you input your credit card and start your subscription, your first end-of-month bill includes billable usage starting from the time you input your credit card.
* **Annual pool of funds**: This usage plan is for longer-term contracts (for example, a year-long contract, or longer). New Relic makes an estimate of your future usage and applies an upfront payment (a “pool of funds”) towards that usage. 

For more about how these options can affect your user downgrade rules, see [Downgrade rules](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing#user-downgrade-rules). 

## What can you get for free? [#free]

If your organization is on [New Relic One pricing](#how-pricing-works) and on the [Standard pricing edition](https://newrelic.com/pricing), you can use New Relic free, forever, if you stay under the free allowed limits. Here's a summary of what you’re able to get for free:

* Up to 100 GBs of ingested data per month.
* One [full platform user](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type), and unlimited [basic users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type).
* A single account (you can have more than one account with [Pro or Enterprise edition](https://newrelic.com/pricing)).

## Restrictions on sharing logins [#login-sharing]
[need better place for this]
A New Relic user is prohibited from sharing their login with other people. To allow you to use New Relic on several devices, a user’s login credentials can be associated with a maximum of either three concurrent active sessions or three unique IP addresses at one time.

Commit message:

fix(core users): clarifying core user release info

src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing.mdx, after:

---
title: 'New Relic One pricing model details'
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - New Relic One pricing and billing
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: An explanation of how the usage-based New Relic One pricing model works.
redirects:
  - /docs/new-relic-one-pricing-billing
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/new-relic-one-pricing-billing
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/pricing-billing
---

This is an explanation of the New Relic One pricing model, which is a usage-based model that bills on data ingest and your number of billable users. Not sure which pricing model you're on? See [Overview of pricing](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model).

## How New Relic One pricing works [#how-pricing-works]

Our New Relic One pricing model is meant to be simple and to provide a lot of value even when you're [using New Relic for free](#free). Our pricing model bills on these factors:

* Your [ingested data](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/data-ingest-billing). We bill on data ingested, no matter the type, making your billing easy to understand. 100 GBs per month is free. US$0.25 per GB ingested above that. 
* Your [billable user count](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing). Core users and full platform users are billable. Basic users are free. Your per-user cost depends on your [pricing edition](https://newrelic.com/pricing) (Standard, Pro, or Enterprise). Standard edition includes one free full platform user. 

For an overview of New Relic One pricing and more details about what the different editions get you, see our [main pricing page](https://newrelic.com/pricing). 

## View usage in the UI [#billing-usage-ui]

For how to find billing and usage information in the UI, see [Billing-related UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/introduction-account-settings).
 
 <Callout variant="important">
If you’re on our [original user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-user-models): The UI view of billable users may differ from how many users you see in the **Users and roles** UI. For more information, see [User count discrepancy](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/users-roles-original-user-model/#full-user-count).
</Callout>

## Core users release [#core-release]

On January 12, 2022, we released a new version of New Relic One pricing with a new user type (the **core user**) and a different way of billing for users. For more on this release, see [Core users release](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/core-users-release). 

## Data ingest calculation [#usage-calculation]

Want to understand how data ingest is calculated? See [Data ingest calculation](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/data-ingest-billing).

Want to manage your data? See [Manage data](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-data-coming-new-relic).

## User count calculation [#user-count]

To learn how billable users are calculated, see [User count calculation](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing).

## Usage plans and billing scheduling [#usage-plans]

When you’re on New Relic One pricing, you can have one of two usage plans that dictate how billing is scheduled:
* **Pay-as-you-go**: This usage plan bills at the end of each calendar month. There are no commitments and you can cancel at any time. When you input your credit card and start your subscription, your first end-of-month bill includes billable usage starting from the time you input your credit card.
* **Annual pool of funds**: This usage plan is for longer-term contracts (for example, a year-long contract, or longer). New Relic makes an estimate of your future usage and applies an upfront payment (a “pool of funds”) towards that usage. 

For more about how these options can affect your user downgrade rules, see [Downgrade rules](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing#user-downgrade-rules). 

## What can you get for free? [#free]

If your organization is on [New Relic One pricing](#how-pricing-works) and on the [Standard pricing edition](https://newrelic.com/pricing), you can use New Relic free, forever, if you stay under the free allowed limits. Here's a summary of what you’re able to get for free:

* Up to 100 GBs of ingested data per month.
* One [full platform user](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type), and unlimited [basic users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type).
* A single account (you can have more than one account with [Pro or Enterprise edition](https://newrelic.com/pricing)).

## Restrictions on sharing logins [#login-sharing]
[need better place for this]
A New Relic user is prohibited from sharing their login with other people. To allow you to use New Relic on several devices, a user’s login credentials can be associated with a maximum of either three concurrent active sessions or three unique IP addresses at one time.
