src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/usage-queries-alerts.mdx, before:

---
title: Query and alert on billing/usage data
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - New Relic One pricing and billing
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: How to create queries and alerts for your New Relic billing-related usage.
redirects:
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/queries-alerts
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-and-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/queries-alerts
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/usage-queries-alerts  
---

For accounts on our [New Relic One pricing model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/pricing-billing), we provide a [**View your usage** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/introduction-account-settings/#pricing) for understanding billing-related usage and a [**Manage your data** UI for managing billing-related data](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/get-data-new-relic/manage-data/manage-your-data). Additionally, you can:

* [Query your usage data](#query) to get more detail than is available in the UI.
* [Set up NRQL alert conditions](#alerts) to get notifications about changes in your usage.

Note that account hierarchy may affect queried data. See [Account structure](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/account-user-structure).

## Available data types [#data-types]

Usage data is attached to these [events](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/new-relic-data-types#events-new-relic):

* `NrConsumption` records usage every hour, and is the equivalent of "real-time" usage. Use this event to observe usage trends over time.
* `NrMTDConsumption` generates aggregate values from the `NrConsumption` event. Use this event to see usage or estimated cost for a billing period.
* `NrUsage` records usage every hour and is used to see usage reported per product.

To see changes made to your account (for example, user management changes), you can query [`NrAuditEvent`](/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/default-data/nrauditevent-event-data-query-examples).

## Query examples [#query]

The [**View your usage** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/introduction-account-settings/#pricing) displays your data usage and billable user count. If you need more detail than that UI provides, you can use these [NRQL queries](/docs/query-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/getting-started/introduction-nrql). For definitions of some of the attributes used in these queries, see [Attributes](#attributes).

### Data usage queries [#data-queries]

Here are some data usage query examples:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="daily-gb"
    title="Daily data usage"
  >
    This query totals your billable ingested data, and displays a daily value for the past three months:

    ```
    FROM NrConsumption SELECT sum(GigabytesIngested) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform' 
       SINCE 3 months ago TIMESERIES 1 day
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="daily-source"
    title="Daily usage by source"
  >
    This query totals your billable ingested data, and displays a daily value for the past three months faceted by the source:

    ```
    FROM NrConsumption SELECT sum(GigabytesIngested) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform' SINCE 3 months ago 
       FACET usageMetric TIMESERIES 1 day
    ```
  </Collapser>

    <Collapser
    id="metrics-analysis"
    title="Metrics ingest by source"
  >
This query breaks down [Metric data](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/understand-data/new-relic-data-types/#dimensional-metrics) by the top ten metric names. You could also facet by `appName` or `host` to adjust the analysis.

    ```
    FROM Metric SELECT bytecountestimate()/10e8 as 'GB Estimate' 
      SINCE '2021-04-01' UNTIL '2021-04-08' 
      FACET metricName LIMIT 10 TIMESERIES 1 day
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="month-gb"
    title="Month-to-date data usage"
  >
    This query shows the current full user count. In other words, it shows how much you'd be billed for your data for that month if you were billed right now.

    ```
    FROM NrMTDConsumption SELECT latest(GigabytesIngested) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform' SINCE this month
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="month-cost"
    title="Month-to-date estimated data cost"
  >
    This query shows the estimated cost of your ingested data:

    ```
    FROM NrMTDConsumption SELECT latest(estimatedCost) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform' SINCE this month
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### User count queries [#user-queries]

Here are some user-related query examples. For details on how users are counted, see [User count calculations](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/pricing-billing#user-count).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="month-users"
    title="Month-to-date full users"
  >
    This query shows the billable full users for the month. In other words, it shows how much you'd be billed for your users for that month if you were billed right now.

    ```
    FROM NrMTDConsumption SELECT latest(usersBillable) 
      SINCE this month
    ```

    This query shows how many full users were counted by hour. This is useful for seeing how the full user count changed over time.

    ```
    from NrConsumption SELECT max(FullUsers) 
      SINCE 10 days ago TIMESERIES 1 hour
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="projected-month-users"
    title="Projected monthly full user count"
  >
    This query shows a projected count of monthly users. This query would not be good for using in a dashboard; it requires values based on a) the days remaining in the month, b) the start of the month. Here's an example querying the projected end-of-month count with 10 days left in that month:

    ```
    FROM NrMTDConsumption SELECT predictLinear(FullUsers, 10 days) 
    SINCE '2020-09-01'
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="full-basic-users"
    title="Count full users and basic users"
  >
    The [usage UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/pricing-billing#billing-usage-ui) shows the count of full users and basic users. The query used is:

    ```
    FROM NrUsage SELECT max(usage) SINCE 10 days ago
    WHERE productLine='FullStackObservability' 
    WHERE metric in ('FullUsers', 'BasicUsers') 
    FACET metric
    ```

    To see the count of full and basic users over time:

    ```
    FROM NrUsage SELECT max(usage) SINCE 10 days ago
    WHERE productLine='FullStackObservability' 
    WHERE metric in ('FullUsers', 'BasicUsers') FACET metric TIMESERIES 1 hour
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Set usage alerts [#alerts]

To help [manage your billable data](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/get-data-new-relic/manage-data/manage-your-data), you can set alerts to notify you of unexpected increases in usage. Learn how to create alerts with [NRQL queries here](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-nrql-alert-conditions/#create).

<Callout variant="caution">
  When creating alert conditions, you should use the Event Timer method, which works very well with infrequent data.
</Callout>

Here are some NRQL alert condition examples. For attribute definitions, see [Attributes](#attributes).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="gb-exceeds-value"
    title="Ingested gigabytes exceed a fixed value"
  >
    This query will create an alert when your hourly usage exceeds a fixed value:

    ```
    FROM NrConsumption SELECT sum(GigabytesIngested) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform'
    ```

    If you have multiple [child accounts](/docs/accounts/install-new-relic/account-setup/manage-apps-or-users-sub-accounts), you may want to set threshold alerts for a specific subaccount:

    ```
    FROM NrConsumption SELECT sum(GigabytesIngested) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform' AND consumingAccountId = <var>YOUR_CHILD-ACCOUNT_ID</var>
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="gb-exceeds-threshold"
    title="Usage exceeds fixed threshold for GBs"
  >
    This query will create an alert when your usage exceeds fixed monthly threshold for GBs:

    ```
    FROM NrMTDConsumption SELECT latest(GigabytesIngested) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform'
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="user-threshold"
    title="Usage exceeds fixed threshold for users"
  >
    This query will create an alert when your usage exceeds fixed monthly threshold for billable users:

    ```
    FROM NrMTDConsumption SELECT latest(usersBillable)
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="usage-exceeds-cost"
    title="Usage exceeds fixed threshold for estimated cost"
  >
    This query will create an alert when your usage exceeds fixed threshold for estimated cost:

    ```
    FROM NrMTDConsumption SELECT latest(estimatedCost) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform' SINCE this month
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Available attributes [#attributes]

Below are some of the important attributes attached to [usage events](#data-types).

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        Attribute
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `productLine`
      </td>

      <td>
        The category of usage. There are three options: `DataPlatform`, `FullStackObservability`, and `ProactiveDetection`. (Starting November 1, 2021, `IncidentIntelligence` is no longer a billing factor). For more details about these categories, see [New Relic platform](https://newrelic.com/platform).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `metric`
      </td>

      <td>
        Consolidates multiple categories of usage into a single metric. Helpful when faceting by productLine.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `consumingAccountId`
      </td>

      <td>
        ID of the New Relic account that is directly responsible for the stored events, as determined from the license key used.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `estimatedCost`
      </td>

      <td>
        Calculates a cost estimate based on usage and metric cost. This is an estimate of costs to date, not your monthly invoice.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

For more attributes, see the [data dictionary](/attribute-dictionary).

Commit message:

fix(user mgmt): change 'full user' to 'full platform user'

src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/usage-queries-alerts.mdx, after:

---
title: Query and alert on billing/usage data
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - New Relic One pricing and billing
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: How to create queries and alerts for your New Relic billing-related usage.
redirects:
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/queries-alerts
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-and-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/queries-alerts
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/usage-queries-alerts  
---

For accounts on our [New Relic One pricing model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/pricing-billing), we provide a [**View your usage** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/introduction-account-settings/#pricing) for understanding billing-related usage and a [**Manage your data** UI for managing billing-related data](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/get-data-new-relic/manage-data/manage-your-data). Additionally, you can:

* [Query your usage data](#query) to get more detail than is available in the UI.
* [Set up NRQL alert conditions](#alerts) to get notifications about changes in your usage.

Note that account hierarchy may affect queried data. See [Account structure](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/account-user-structure).

## Available data types [#data-types]

Usage data is attached to these [events](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/new-relic-data-types#events-new-relic):

* `NrConsumption` records usage every hour, and is the equivalent of "real-time" usage. Use this event to observe usage trends over time.
* `NrMTDConsumption` generates aggregate values from the `NrConsumption` event. Use this event to see usage or estimated cost for a billing period.
* `NrUsage` records usage every hour and is used to see usage reported per product.

To see changes made to your account (for example, user management changes), you can query [`NrAuditEvent`](/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/default-data/nrauditevent-event-data-query-examples).

## Query examples [#query]

The [**View your usage** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/introduction-account-settings/#pricing) displays your data usage and billable user count. If you need more detail than that UI provides, you can use these [NRQL queries](/docs/query-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/getting-started/introduction-nrql). For definitions of some of the attributes used in these queries, see [Attributes](#attributes).

### Data usage queries [#data-queries]

Here are some data usage query examples:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="daily-gb"
    title="Daily data usage"
  >
    This query totals your billable ingested data, and displays a daily value for the past three months:

    ```
    FROM NrConsumption SELECT sum(GigabytesIngested) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform' 
       SINCE 3 months ago TIMESERIES 1 day
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="daily-source"
    title="Daily usage by source"
  >
    This query totals your billable ingested data, and displays a daily value for the past three months faceted by the source:

    ```
    FROM NrConsumption SELECT sum(GigabytesIngested) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform' SINCE 3 months ago 
       FACET usageMetric TIMESERIES 1 day
    ```
  </Collapser>

    <Collapser
    id="metrics-analysis"
    title="Metrics ingest by source"
  >
This query breaks down [Metric data](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/understand-data/new-relic-data-types/#dimensional-metrics) by the top ten metric names. You could also facet by `appName` or `host` to adjust the analysis.

    ```
    FROM Metric SELECT bytecountestimate()/10e8 as 'GB Estimate' 
      SINCE '2021-04-01' UNTIL '2021-04-08' 
      FACET metricName LIMIT 10 TIMESERIES 1 day
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="month-gb"
    title="Month-to-date data usage"
  >
    This query shows the current full platform user count. In other words, it shows how much you'd be billed for your data for that month if you were billed right now.

    ```
    FROM NrMTDConsumption SELECT latest(GigabytesIngested) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform' SINCE this month
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="month-cost"
    title="Month-to-date estimated data cost"
  >
    This query shows the estimated cost of your ingested data:

    ```
    FROM NrMTDConsumption SELECT latest(estimatedCost) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform' SINCE this month
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### User count queries [#user-queries]

Here are some user-related query examples. For details on how users are counted, see [User count calculations](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/pricing-billing#user-count).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="month-users"
    title="Month-to-date full platform users"
  >
    This query shows the billable full platform users for the month. In other words, it shows how much you'd be billed for your users for that month if you were billed right now.

    ```
    FROM NrMTDConsumption SELECT latest(usersBillable) 
      SINCE this month
    ```

    This query shows how many full platform users were counted by hour. This is useful for seeing how the full platform user count changed over time.

    ```
    from NrConsumption SELECT max(FullUsers) 
      SINCE 10 days ago TIMESERIES 1 hour
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="projected-month-users"
    title="Projected monthly full platform user count"
  >
    This query shows a projected count of monthly users. This query would not be good for using in a dashboard; it requires values based on a) the days remaining in the month, b) the start of the month. Here's an example querying the projected end-of-month count with 10 days left in that month:

    ```
    FROM NrMTDConsumption SELECT predictLinear(FullUsers, 10 days) 
    SINCE '2020-09-01'
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="full-basic-users"
    title="Count full platform users and basic users"
  >
    The [usage UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/pricing-billing#billing-usage-ui) shows the count of full platform users and basic users. The query used is:

    ```
    FROM NrUsage SELECT max(usage) SINCE 10 days ago
    WHERE productLine='FullStackObservability' 
    WHERE metric in ('FullUsers', 'BasicUsers') 
    FACET metric
    ```

    To see the count of full and basic users over time:

    ```
    FROM NrUsage SELECT max(usage) SINCE 10 days ago
    WHERE productLine='FullStackObservability' 
    WHERE metric in ('FullUsers', 'BasicUsers') FACET metric TIMESERIES 1 hour
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Set usage alerts [#alerts]

To help [manage your billable data](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/get-data-new-relic/manage-data/manage-your-data), you can set alerts to notify you of unexpected increases in usage. Learn how to create alerts with [NRQL queries here](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-nrql-alert-conditions/#create).

<Callout variant="caution">
  When creating alert conditions, you should use the Event Timer method, which works very well with infrequent data.
</Callout>

Here are some NRQL alert condition examples. For attribute definitions, see [Attributes](#attributes).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="gb-exceeds-value"
    title="Ingested gigabytes exceed a fixed value"
  >
    This query will create an alert when your hourly usage exceeds a fixed value:

    ```
    FROM NrConsumption SELECT sum(GigabytesIngested) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform'
    ```

    If you have multiple [child accounts](/docs/accounts/install-new-relic/account-setup/manage-apps-or-users-sub-accounts), you may want to set threshold alerts for a specific subaccount:

    ```
    FROM NrConsumption SELECT sum(GigabytesIngested) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform' AND consumingAccountId = <var>YOUR_CHILD-ACCOUNT_ID</var>
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="gb-exceeds-threshold"
    title="Usage exceeds fixed threshold for GBs"
  >
    This query will create an alert when your usage exceeds fixed monthly threshold for GBs:

    ```
    FROM NrMTDConsumption SELECT latest(GigabytesIngested) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform'
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="user-threshold"
    title="Usage exceeds fixed threshold for users"
  >
    This query will create an alert when your usage exceeds fixed monthly threshold for billable users:

    ```
    FROM NrMTDConsumption SELECT latest(usersBillable)
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="usage-exceeds-cost"
    title="Usage exceeds fixed threshold for estimated cost"
  >
    This query will create an alert when your usage exceeds fixed threshold for estimated cost:

    ```
    FROM NrMTDConsumption SELECT latest(estimatedCost) 
       WHERE productLine = 'DataPlatform' SINCE this month
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Available attributes [#attributes]

Below are some of the important attributes attached to [usage events](#data-types).

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        Attribute
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `productLine`
      </td>

      <td>
        The category of usage. There are three options: `DataPlatform`, `FullStackObservability`, and `ProactiveDetection`. (Starting November 1, 2021, `IncidentIntelligence` is no longer a billing factor). For more details about these categories, see [New Relic platform](https://newrelic.com/platform).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `metric`
      </td>

      <td>
        Consolidates multiple categories of usage into a single metric. Helpful when faceting by productLine.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `consumingAccountId`
      </td>

      <td>
        ID of the New Relic account that is directly responsible for the stored events, as determined from the license key used.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `estimatedCost`
      </td>

      <td>
        Calculates a cost estimate based on usage and metric cost. This is an estimate of costs to date, not your monthly invoice.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

For more attributes, see the [data dictionary](/attribute-dictionary).
