src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Billable user calculation and user downgrade rules'
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - New Relic One pricing and billing
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: For New Relic One pricing, an explanation of how billable users are calculated and rules for downgrading users.
---

For [New Relic One pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing), the count of billable users is one billing factor. 

## View user count in the UI [#ui]

For how to view usage in the UI, see [Billing-related UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/introduction-account-settings).

## Pricing versions (with and without core users) [#pricing-versions]

We have two versions of the New Relic One pricing model: 

* **Our primary New Relic One pricing version.** This version is also known as "New Relic One with core users." It was released January 12, 2022. Organizations on this version have access to a third user type: the [core user](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type), and their [billable user rules](#user-count) are different than the "New Relic One without core users" version's rules.
* **The "New Relic One without core users" version.** If your New Relic organization existed prior to January 12, 2022, and hasn't switched to the newer version, this is your version. Organizations on this version can add only basic users and full platform users; they don't have access to core users. This pricing version will be increasingly deprecated over time. See the [billable user rules for this version](#non-core).

For more about the differences between these versions, see [Core users release](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/core-users-release).

## Billable user calculation [#user-count]

The main way to understand your billable user count is to go to the [usage UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/introduction-account-settings/#pricing). If you need more detail than the UI provides, you can also run [usage-related queries](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/usage-queries-alerts). 

<Callout variant="important">
These billing rules apply for organizations on our [primary New Relic One pricing version](#pricing-versions) (the version with core users). 
</Callout>

To determine an organization's count of billable users in a calendar month, we count the users during that month who had a **billable user type** of either full platform user or core user. A user’s **billable user type** is defined as the highest user type at which a user was set during a calendar month. We use UTC timezone to define the start and end of a calendar month. 

For an example of how this works in practice: If a user is set as a full platform user at any point during a calendar month, their billable user type for that month is "full platform user," and won't change, even if they downgrade later that month. This is the case even if that user is changed to a full platform user only briefly.

If you're planning on adding billable users or changing your users' user type, you should keep these rules in mind. Some tips: 

* If you want to add a billable user or upgrade a user, you might choose to do that at the beginning of the month. 
* If you want to downgrade a user, you might choose to do that at the end of the month. 

The count of your unique users is determined by email address. If there are multiple user records in an organization that have the same email address, for billing purposes those user records would count as a single user, and that user's billable user type would be their highest user type assigned during that month.

The cost of your billable users depends on an organization’s [pricing edition](https://newrelic.com/pricing) (Standard, Pro, or Enterprise) or on any custom deals you have with New Relic. 

When a New Relic organization first starts being billed, their billable user count is pro-rated based on when during the month they started. If an organization cancels their subscription, prorating is also applied for their last month. 

## User downgrade rules [#user-downgrade-rules]

<Callout variant="important">
This section applies only for organizations on the [our primary New Relic One pricing version](#pricing-versions) (the version with core users).
</Callout>

The rules pertaining to how many times you can downgrade full platform users differ depending on your [usage plan](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing#usage-plans): 

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="payg-downgrade"
    title="Pay-as-you-go: downgrade rules"
  >

For the pay-as-you-go [usage plan](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing#usage-plans), there are no rules limiting downgrading of users but the [billing impacts](#user-calculation) may impact when you decide to upgrade or downgrade users. 
</Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="apof-downgrade"
    title="Annual pool of funds (longer term contract): downgrade rules"
  >

Before upgrading or downgrading a user, ensure you understand the [billing impacts](#user-calculation).

Because the [annual pool of funds plan](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing#usage-plans) involves a longer-term commitment, we limit how many times a full platform user can be downgraded. On a monthly level (not within a month), a full platform user can only switch to a lower user type twice over one "contract year" (a year starting at your contract's starting point, or at the anniversary of that point). Once a full platform user has downgraded twice, if they switch back to be a full platform user in a later month, they are billed as a full platform user for the remaining months in that year. 

Here's an example of how that works in practice: Let’s say your organization has a year-long contract that started March 1st. One of your full platform users switches to become a basic user for the month of May, then goes back to being a full platform user for the month of June, and then becomes a basic user for the month of August. That user has reached the two-downgrades-per-contract-year limit. If that user then becomes a billable full platform user again for a subsequent calendar month in that remaining contract year, that user counts as a full platform user for the remaining months in that year, regardless of what their user type is changed to.

Note that the downgrade limit doesn't apply within a month. A user can be switched as many times within a month as needed, but remember that the highest user type a user is set to during a month is considered their [billable user type](#user-count) for that month. 

If your organization started out on a different pricing plan and [switched to this pricing version](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/core-users-release#nr1core-optin), the two-times-per-year downgrade limit will apply from when you opted in until the renewal of your subscription term or, if applicable, the annual anniversary date of your commitment term, whichever is earlier. 
</Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## New Relic One pricing without core users [#non-core]

The following rules apply only for organizations on the [version of New Relic One pricing **without core users**](#pricing-versions): 

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="non-core-user-billing"
    title="Billable user calculation"
  >

The following rules apply only for organizations on the [version of New Relic One pricing without core users](#pricing-versions): 

* **How billable users are determined.** For a calendar month, an organization is billed based on a calculation of the number of full platform users for that month. 
* **Prorating in first and last month.** The count of billable users is prorated based on when a New Relic organization starts their subscription, or based on when a user becomes a full platform user (added as a full platform user or converted to one).
* **Users are billable when provisioned.** A user counts as billable the moment they are set to a billable user type in New Relic. This applies regardless of whether that user has ever logged into or used New Relic. 
* **User count based on email address.** If there are multiple user records in an organization that have the same email address, for billing purposes that would count as a single user.
* **Caveat for our original user model.** If your organization has users on our [original user model](?): If a user is set as a basic user in one account in the organization and as a billable user in another account, the billable user status takes precedence.
</Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="non-core-downgrade-rules"
    title="User downgrade rules"
  >
The following user downgrade rules apply for organizations on the [version of New Relic One pricing without core users](#pricing-versions): 

User type is meant to be a fairly long-term setting based on a user’s expected New Relic duties and responsibilities. For that reason, a full platform user may only be downgraded a maximum of two times in a 12-month period. If a user’s user type has changed more than this allowed number of changes, New Relic can charge that user as a full platform user. 
</Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

Commit message:

fix(core users): small improvements to some wordings

src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/user-count-billing.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Billable user calculation and user downgrade rules'
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - New Relic One pricing and billing
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: For New Relic One pricing, an explanation of how billable users are calculated and rules for downgrading users.
---

For [New Relic One pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing), the count of billable users is one billing factor. 

## View user count in the UI [#ui]

For how to view usage in the UI, see [Billing-related UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/introduction-account-settings).

## Pricing versions (with and without core users) [#pricing-versions]

We have two versions of the New Relic One pricing model: 

* **Our primary New Relic One pricing version.** This version is also known as "New Relic One with core users." It was released January 12, 2022. Organizations on this version have access to a third user type: the [core user](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type), and their [billable user rules](#user-count) are different than the "New Relic One without core users" version's rules.
* **The "New Relic One without core users" version.** If your New Relic organization existed prior to January 12, 2022, and hasn't switched to the newer version, this is your version. Organizations on this version can add only basic users and full platform users; they don't have access to core users. This pricing version will be increasingly deprecated over time. See the [billable user rules for this version](#non-core).

For more about the differences between these versions, see [Core users release](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/core-users-release).

## Billable user calculation [#user-count]

The main way to understand your billable user count is to go to the [usage UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/introduction-account-settings/#pricing). If you need more detail than the UI provides, you can also run [usage-related queries](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/usage-queries-alerts). 

<Callout variant="important">
These billing rules apply for organizations on our [primary New Relic One pricing version](#pricing-versions) (the version with core users). 
</Callout>

To determine an organization's count of billable users in a calendar month, we count the users during that month who had a **billable user type** of either full platform user or core user. A user’s **billable user type** is defined as the highest user type at which a user was set during a calendar month. We use UTC timezone to define the start and end of a calendar month. 

For an example of how this works in practice: If a user is set as a full platform user at any point during a calendar month, their billable user type for that month is "full platform user," and won't change, even if they downgrade later that month. This is the case even if that user is changed to a full platform user only briefly.

If you're planning on adding billable users or changing your users' user type, you should keep these rules in mind. Some tips: 

* If you want to add a billable user or upgrade a user, you might choose to do that at the beginning of the month. 
* If you want to downgrade a user, you might choose to do that at the end of the month. 

The count of your unique users is determined by email address. If there are multiple user records in an organization that have the same email address, for billing purposes those user records would count as a single user, and that user's billable user type would be their highest user type assigned during that month.

The cost of your billable users depends on an organization’s [pricing edition](https://newrelic.com/pricing) (Standard, Pro, or Enterprise) or on any custom deals you have with New Relic. 

When a New Relic organization first starts being billed, their billable user count is pro-rated based on when during the month they started. If an organization cancels their subscription, prorating is also applied for their last month. 

## User downgrade rules [#user-downgrade-rules]

<Callout variant="important">
This section applies only for organizations on the [our primary New Relic One pricing version](#pricing-versions) (the version with core users).
</Callout>

The rules pertaining to how many times you can downgrade full platform users differ depending on your [usage plan](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing#usage-plans): 

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="payg-downgrade"
    title="Pay-as-you-go: downgrade rules"
  >

For the pay-as-you-go [usage plan](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing#usage-plans), there are no rules limiting downgrading of users but the [billing impacts](#user-calculation) may impact when you decide to upgrade or downgrade users. 
</Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="apof-downgrade"
    title="Annual pool of funds (longer term contract): downgrade rules"
  >

Before upgrading or downgrading a user, ensure you understand the [billing impacts](#user-calculation).

For the [annual pool of funds plan](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing#usage-plans), we limit how many times a full platform user can be downgraded. There are no limitations on how many times you can downgrade a core user to a basic user.  

On a month-by-month level (not within a month), a full platform user can only switch to a lower user type twice during one "contract year" (a year starting at your contract's starting point, or at the anniversary of that point). Once a full platform user has downgraded twice, if they switch back to be a full platform user in a later month, they are billed as a full platform user for the remaining months in that year. 

Here's an example of how that works in practice: Let’s say your organization has a year-long contract that started March 1st. One of your full platform users downgrades to be a basic user for the month of May, then goes back to being a full platform user for the month of June, and then becomes a core user for the month of August. That user has reached the two-downgrades-per-contract-year limit. If that user then becomes a billable full platform user again for a subsequent calendar month in that remaining contract year, that user counts as a full platform user for the remaining months in that year, regardless of what their user type is changed to.

Note that the downgrade limit doesn't apply within a month. A user can switch their user type as many times within a month as needed, and the highest user type that user is set as during that month is considered their [billable user type](#user-count) for that month. 

If your organization started out on a different pricing plan and [switched to this pricing version](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/core-users-release#nr1core-optin), the two-times-per-year downgrade limit will apply from when you opted in until the renewal of your subscription term or, if applicable, the annual anniversary date of your commitment term, whichever is earlier. 
</Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## New Relic One pricing without core users [#non-core]

The following rules apply only for organizations on the [version of New Relic One pricing **without core users**](#pricing-versions): 

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="non-core-user-billing"
    title="Billable user calculation"
  >

The following rules apply only for organizations on the [version of New Relic One pricing without core users](#pricing-versions): 

* **How billable users are determined.** For a calendar month, an organization is billed based on a calculation of the number of full platform users for that month. 
* **Prorating in first and last month.** The count of billable users is prorated based on when a New Relic organization starts their subscription, or based on when a user becomes a full platform user (added as a full platform user or converted to one).
* **Users are billable when provisioned.** A user counts as billable the moment they are set to a billable user type in New Relic. This applies regardless of whether that user has ever logged into or used New Relic. 
* **User count based on email address.** If there are multiple user records in an organization that have the same email address, for billing purposes that would count as a single user.
* **Caveat for our original user model.** If your organization has users on our [original user model](?): If a user is set as a basic user in one account in the organization and as a billable user in another account, the billable user status takes precedence.
</Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="non-core-downgrade-rules"
    title="User downgrade rules"
  >
The following user downgrade rules apply for organizations on the [version of New Relic One pricing without core users](#pricing-versions): 

User type is meant to be a fairly long-term setting based on a user’s expected New Relic duties and responsibilities. For that reason, a full platform user may only be downgraded a maximum of two times in a 12-month period. If a user’s user type has changed more than this allowed number of changes, New Relic can charge that user as a full platform user. 
</Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>
