src/content/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile/maintenance/viewing-your-application-token.mdx, before:

---
title: Application token for New Relic mobile monitoring
tags:
  - Mobile monitoring
  - New Relic Mobile
  - Maintenance
metaDescription: 'For New Relic mobile monitoring: how to find application token (aka the mobile license key).'
redirects:
  - /docs/mobile-apps/viewing-your-application-token
---

New Relic's mobile monitoring automatically assigns a unique, 40-character hexadecimal string to each mobile app you monitor, for both the US and EU datacenter. This application token is similar to a New Relic license key and is required to authenticate your app's data.

To view your application token:

1. Go to [one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/), click **Mobile**, and select a monitored app.
2. Select **Application** or **Installation**.

<Callout variant="tip">
  Data reported from your mobile app is tied to a named app based on the application token. All apps with a single application token will report to the same place in our mobile monitoring UI, regardless of the app's name when installed on a mobile device. We recommend using a different application token for each platform to separate iOS and Android versions.
</Callout>

Commit message:

fix(license key): clarifying best practices

src/content/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile/maintenance/viewing-your-application-token.mdx, after:

---
title: New Relic mobile monitoring application token
tags:
  - Mobile monitoring
  - New Relic Mobile
  - Maintenance
metaDescription: 'For New Relic mobile monitoring: how to find the app token (aka the mobile data ingest key).'
redirects:
  - /docs/mobile-apps/viewing-your-application-token
---

One of our [data ingest keys](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys) is our mobile monitoring application token. For each mobile app you monitor, we automatically assign a unique, 40-character hexadecimal string to that app, for both the US and EU datacenter. This token is required to authenticate your app's data.

To view your application token:

1. Go to [one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/), click **Mobile**, and select a monitored app.
2. Select **Application** or **Installation**.

<Callout variant="tip">
  Data reported from your mobile app is tied to a named app based on the application token. All apps with a single application token will report to the same place in our mobile monitoring UI, regardless of the app's name when installed on a mobile device. We recommend using a different application token for each platform to separate iOS and Android versions.
</Callout>
