src/content/docs/data-apis/ingest-apis/telemetry-sdks-report-custom-telemetry-data.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Telemetry SDKs: Report custom telemetry data'
tags:
  - Ingest and manage data
  - Ingest APIs
metaDescription: "Report custom telemetry data with New Relic's open-source Telemetry SDKs."
redirects:
  - /docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-apis/telemetry-sdks-report-custom-telemetry-data
  - /docs/telemetry-sdk
  - /docs/telemetry-sdk-send-custom-telemetry-data-new-relic
  - /docs/telemetry-sdks-send-custom-telemetry-data-new-relic
  - /node/39621
  - /docs/data-ingest-apis/get-data-new-relic/new-relic-sdks/telemetry-sdks-send-custom-telemetry-data-new-relic
  - /docs/telemetry-data-platform/get-started/capabilities/telemetry-sdks-send-custom-telemetry-data-new-relic
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/instrument-everything/develop-your-own-integrations/new-relic-telemetry-sdk
  - /docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/ingest-apis/telemetry-sdks-report-custom-telemetry-data
  - /docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/istio/istio-adapter
---

Our Telemetry SDKs are an open source set of API client libraries that send data to the New Relic platform. Under the hood, these SDKs rely on our core [data ingest APIs](/docs/data-apis/ingest-apis): the Metric API, Trace API, Log API, and Event API.

We offer [open-source integrations](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations) for telemetry tools that were created using our Telemetry SDKs. If those solutions (or our other [integrations](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability/)) don't meet your needs, you can use the Telemetry SDKs to create your own telemetry data solutions.

## Requirements and compatibility [#requirements]

The Telemetry SDKs use our Metric API, Event API, Log API, and Trace API, which all require a [license key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key), so you'll need a license key for the account you wish to send data to.

<Callout variant="tip">
  New Relic has contributed the Telemetry SDK to the open source community under an Apache 2.0 license.
</Callout>

## Available libraries [#client-libraries]

The Telemetry SDKs are open source software on GitHub. Use the language-specific GitHub links below to get library details, coding examples, and procedures for how to use the SDKs. We currently support the following libraries, with more to be created in the future:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "190px" }}>
        Language
      </th>

      <th style={{ width: "330px" }}>
        Library
      </th>

      <th>
        Supported New Relic data types
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Java
      </td>

      <td>
        [Java library on GitHub](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-java)
      </td>

      <td>
        Metrics

        Events

        Logs

        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Node/TypeScript
      </td>

      <td>
        [NodeJS library on GitHub](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-node)
      </td>

      <td>
        Metrics

        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Python
      </td>

      <td>
        [Python library on GitHub](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-python)
      </td>

      <td>
        Metrics

        Events

        Logs

        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Go
      </td>

      <td>
        [Go library on Github](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-go)
      </td>

      <td>
        Metrics

        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        .NET
      </td>

      <td>
        [.NET library on GitHub](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-dotnet)

        [.NET package in NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/NewRelic.Telemetry)
      </td>

      <td>
        Metrics

        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        C
      </td>

      <td>
        [C library on Github](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-c)
      </td>

      <td>
        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Rust
      </td>

      <td>
        [Rust library on Github](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-rust)
      </td>

      <td>
        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Ruby
      </td>

      <td>
        [Ruby library on Github](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-ruby)

        [Gem on Rubygems](https://rubygems.org/gems/newrelic-telemetry_sdk)
      </td>

      <td>
        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

For more on the supported data types, see:

* An [overview of New Relic data types](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/understand-data/new-relic-data-types)
* Metrics: see [the Metric API](/docs/data-ingest-apis/get-data-new-relic/metric-api/introduction-metric-api)
* Logs: see [the Log API](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/get-data/apis/introduction-log-api)
* Traces: see [the Trace API](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/trace-api/introduction-trace-api)
* Events: see [the Event API](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/ingest-apis/intro-event-api)

### Write your own Telemetry SDK or contribute to an existing one

If you need a Telemetry SDK in a language that does not currently exist or want to contribute to an existing library, please see the [Telemetry SDK specifications](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-specs).

## Integrations built with the Telemetry SDKs [#external-data]

To learn more about our integrations built using our Telemetry SDKs, see [Intro to open source telemetry integrations](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/get-started/introduction-new-relics-open-source-telemetry-integrations).

For all monitoring solutions, see our [New Relic Instant Observability](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability/).

Commit message:

fix(integrations): deleting 'tel sdks integration' doc

src/content/docs/data-apis/ingest-apis/telemetry-sdks-report-custom-telemetry-data.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Telemetry SDKs: Report custom telemetry data'
tags:
  - Ingest and manage data
  - Ingest APIs
metaDescription: "Report custom telemetry data with New Relic's open-source Telemetry SDKs."
redirects:
  - /docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-apis/telemetry-sdks-report-custom-telemetry-data
  - /docs/telemetry-sdk
  - /docs/telemetry-sdk-send-custom-telemetry-data-new-relic
  - /docs/telemetry-sdks-send-custom-telemetry-data-new-relic
  - /node/39621
  - /docs/data-ingest-apis/get-data-new-relic/new-relic-sdks/telemetry-sdks-send-custom-telemetry-data-new-relic
  - /docs/telemetry-data-platform/get-started/capabilities/telemetry-sdks-send-custom-telemetry-data-new-relic
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/instrument-everything/develop-your-own-integrations/new-relic-telemetry-sdk
  - /docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/ingest-apis/telemetry-sdks-report-custom-telemetry-data
  - /docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/istio/istio-adapter
---

Our Telemetry SDKs are an open source set of API client libraries that send data to the New Relic platform. Under the hood, these SDKs rely on our primary [data ingest APIs](/docs/data-apis/ingest-apis): the Metric API, Trace API, Log API, and Event API. 

If our [pre-built solutions](https://developer.newrelic.com/instant-observability) don't meet your needs, our Telemetry SDKs are one way to create a custom telemetry solution (see other [solutions for reporting custom data](/docs/data-apis/custom-data/intro-custom-data)). 

## Requirements and compatibility [#requirements]

The Telemetry SDKs use our Metric API, Event API, Log API, and Trace API, which all require a [license key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key), so you'll need a license key for the account you wish to send data to.

<Callout variant="tip">
  New Relic has contributed the Telemetry SDK to the open source community under an Apache 2.0 license.
</Callout>

## Available libraries [#client-libraries]

The Telemetry SDKs are open source software on GitHub. Use the language-specific GitHub links below to get library details, coding examples, and procedures for how to use the SDKs. We currently support the following libraries, with more to be created in the future:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "190px" }}>
        Language
      </th>

      <th style={{ width: "330px" }}>
        Library
      </th>

      <th>
        Supported New Relic data types
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Java
      </td>

      <td>
        [Java library on GitHub](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-java)
      </td>

      <td>
        Metrics

        Events

        Logs

        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Node/TypeScript
      </td>

      <td>
        [NodeJS library on GitHub](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-node)
      </td>

      <td>
        Metrics

        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Python
      </td>

      <td>
        [Python library on GitHub](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-python)
      </td>

      <td>
        Metrics

        Events

        Logs

        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Go
      </td>

      <td>
        [Go library on Github](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-go)
      </td>

      <td>
        Metrics

        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        .NET
      </td>

      <td>
        [.NET library on GitHub](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-dotnet)

        [.NET package in NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/NewRelic.Telemetry)
      </td>

      <td>
        Metrics

        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        C
      </td>

      <td>
        [C library on Github](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-c)
      </td>

      <td>
        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Rust
      </td>

      <td>
        [Rust library on Github](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-rust)
      </td>

      <td>
        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Ruby
      </td>

      <td>
        [Ruby library on Github](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-ruby)

        [Gem on Rubygems](https://rubygems.org/gems/newrelic-telemetry_sdk)
      </td>

      <td>
        Traces
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

For more on the supported data types, see:

* An [overview of New Relic data types](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/understand-data/new-relic-data-types)
* Metrics: see [the Metric API](/docs/data-ingest-apis/get-data-new-relic/metric-api/introduction-metric-api)
* Logs: see [the Log API](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/get-data/apis/introduction-log-api)
* Traces: see [the Trace API](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/trace-api/introduction-trace-api)
* Events: see [the Event API](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/ingest-apis/intro-event-api)

### Write your own Telemetry SDK or contribute to an existing one

If you need a Telemetry SDK in a language that does not currently exist or want to contribute to an existing library, please see the [Telemetry SDK specifications](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-specs).
