src/content/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/scorecards/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Getting started with Scorecards'
description: 'Learn how to create and manage Scorecards in New Relic One.'
tags: ['Scorecards', 'New Relic One', 'service catalog', 'service architecture intelligence']
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

<Callout title="preview">
    We're still working on this feature, but we'd love for you to try it out!

    This feature is currently provided as part of a preview program pursuant to our [pre-release policies](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/new-relic-pre-release-policy).
</Callout>


Scorecards is a feature designed to help organizations adhere to a well-defined engineering strategy by providing a standardized and structured approach to software development. 
You can use the Scorecards capability in New Relic to evaluate team or group performance against predefined rules and custom metrics. Scorecards help organizations adhere to a well-defined engineering strategy by providing a standardized and structured approach to software development. By transforming strategic goals into measurable outcomes, Scorecards facilitate continuous improvement and informed decision-making. 


## Key Features [#key-features]

By leveraging Scorecards, you can:
* Track and improve performance across various areas.
* Automate the tracking of compliance metrics, reducing the manual effort required to maintain standards.
* Use data-driven insights to identify areas for improvement and make informed decisions about resource allocation and process optimization.
* Assign ownership of compliance tasks to specific teams or individuals, promoting responsibility and transparency.



## Access the Scorecards [#access-scorecards]

To access the Scorecards:

1. Log in to your New Relic account.
2. Go to **All Capabilities > Scorecards**.


## Using the Scorecards [#using-scorecards]

The Scorecards offers various views to support your requirements:

* All Scorecards
* Single Scorecard
* Rule view
* Team view


### All Scorecards page [#all-scorecards]

The Scorecards page provides a high-level view of all Scorecards to offer insights into adherence to engineering standards and overall performance. You can monitor the performance metrics across multiple Scorecards and identify areas that need immediate action. You can use various filters and group by options to refine your search.

<img
    title="Scorecards view"
    alt="Scorecards view"
    src="/images/new-relic-all-scorecards.webp"
/> 

### Single Scorecard View [#single-scorecard]

This page provides detailed insights into specific metrics and rules, including historical performance data. You can use this page to:

* Analyze historical data trends over time to track improvements or declines in performance.
* View the current score that is the average of all rule scores, representing compliance with engineering standards.
* View each rule's score with its condition, scope, and evaluation status. Drill down to see specific checks and pass/fail statuses.

<img
    title="Single Scorecards view"
    alt="Single Scorecards view"
    src="/images/new-relic-scorecards-details.webp"
/> 

### Rule View [#rule-view]

Rules are the building blocks of Scorecards, containing specific performance conditions. The rule view allows users to assess and manage individual rules.
In this view you can view a list of all rules and their details including a description, NRQL statement, and scope. Evaluate entities against these rules to determine compliance.

For more information to:

* Create rules, refer [Create Scorecard rules](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/scorecards/managing-scorecards/#create-scorecard-rules).
* Manage rules, refer [Manage rules](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/scorecards/managing-scorecards/#update-rule). 



### Teams View [#teams-view]

The Teams view aggregates Scorecards data at the team level, providing a team-centric perspective of compliance and performance. In the Teams view:

* Each team's score is calculated as the average of associated Scorecards, offering a quick view of adherence to standards.
* Performance status is categorized by color or label, such as Good, Below Goal, and Need Attention, to signal areas requiring attention.

<img
    title="Scorecards teams view"
    alt="Scorecards teams view"
    src="/images/new-relic-scorecard-teams.webp"

/>

Commit message:

Scorecards GA readiness
 Removed preview callouts and added pricing info

src/content/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/scorecards/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Getting started with Scorecards'
description: 'Learn how to create and manage Scorecards in New Relic One.'
tags: ['Scorecards', 'New Relic One', 'service catalog', 'service architecture intelligence']
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

<Callout variant="important">
Scorecards is available only to the [Advanced Compute](https://newrelic.com/pricing/compute#pricing_plan-compute) customers. If you are using Scorecards then you get following capabilities along with it:
- [Catalogs](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/catalogs/catalogs/)
- [Maps](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/maps/advanced-maps/)
</Callout>

Scorecards is a feature designed to help organizations adhere to a well-defined engineering strategy by providing a standardized and structured approach to software development. 
You can use the Scorecards capability in New Relic to evaluate team or group performance against predefined rules and custom metrics. Scorecards help organizations adhere to a well-defined engineering strategy by providing a standardized and structured approach to software development. By transforming strategic goals into measurable outcomes, Scorecards facilitate continuous improvement and informed decision-making. 


## Key Features [#key-features]

By leveraging Scorecards, you can:
* Track and improve performance across various areas.
* Automate the tracking of compliance metrics, reducing the manual effort required to maintain standards.
* Use data-driven insights to identify areas for improvement and make informed decisions about resource allocation and process optimization.
* Assign ownership of compliance tasks to specific teams or individuals, promoting responsibility and transparency.



## Access the Scorecards [#access-scorecards]

To access the Scorecards:

1. Log in to your New Relic account.
2. Go to **All Capabilities > Scorecards**.


## Using the Scorecards [#using-scorecards]

The Scorecards offers various views to support your requirements:

* All Scorecards
* Single Scorecard
* Rule view
* Team view


### All Scorecards page [#all-scorecards]

The Scorecards page provides a high-level view of all Scorecards to offer insights into adherence to engineering standards and overall performance. You can monitor the performance metrics across multiple Scorecards and identify areas that need immediate action. You can use various filters and group by options to refine your search.

<img
    title="Scorecards view"
    alt="Scorecards view"
    src="/images/new-relic-all-scorecards.webp"
/> 

### Single Scorecard View [#single-scorecard]

This page provides detailed insights into specific metrics and rules, including historical performance data. You can use this page to:

* Analyze historical data trends over time to track improvements or declines in performance.
* View the current score that is the average of all rule scores, representing compliance with engineering standards.
* View each rule's score with its condition, scope, and evaluation status. Drill down to see specific checks and pass/fail statuses.

<img
    title="Single Scorecards view"
    alt="Single Scorecards view"
    src="/images/new-relic-scorecards-details.webp"
/> 

### Rule View [#rule-view]

Rules are the building blocks of Scorecards, containing specific performance conditions. The rule view allows users to assess and manage individual rules.
In this view you can view a list of all rules and their details including a description, NRQL statement, and scope. Evaluate entities against these rules to determine compliance.

For more information to:

* Create rules, refer [Create Scorecard rules](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/scorecards/managing-scorecards/#create-scorecard-rules).
* Manage rules, refer [Manage rules](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/scorecards/managing-scorecards/#update-rule). 



### Teams View [#teams-view]

The Teams view aggregates Scorecards data at the team level, providing a team-centric perspective of compliance and performance. In the Teams view:

* Each team's score is calculated as the average of associated Scorecards, offering a quick view of adherence to standards.
* Performance status is categorized by color or label, such as Good, Below Goal, and Need Attention, to signal areas requiring attention.

<img
    title="Scorecards teams view"
    alt="Scorecards teams view"
    src="/images/new-relic-scorecard-teams.webp"

/>
