src/content/docs/apm/agents/python-agent/installation/standard-python-agent-install.mdx, before:

---
title: Standard Python agent install
tags:
  - Agents
  - Python agent
  - Installation
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: How to install the New Relic agent to set up performance monitoring for a Python application.
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/python-agent/installation/standard-python-agent-install
  - /docs/python/python-agent-quick-start
  - /docs/agents/python-agent/getting-started/python-agent-quick-start
---

Our Python agent auto-instruments your code so you can start monitoring applications. You can use our launcher, or follow the instructions in this document to complete a basic Python agent installation for our [supported frameworks](/docs/agents/python-agent/getting-started/instrumented-python-packages).

<ButtonLink
  role="button"
  to="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJ0dWNzb24ucGxnLWluc3RydW1lbnQtZXZlcnl0aGluZyJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJzZXR1cC1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1weXRob24taW50ZWdyYXRpb24iLCJhY2NvdW50SWQiOjI2NDA0MDl9"
  variant="primary"
>
  Add Python data
</ButtonLink>

## Standard installation [#install]

These instructions are for [applications on frameworks that the Python agent automatically instruments](/docs/agents/python-agent/getting-started/instrumented-python-packages).

* If you want to monitor non-web Python scripts, custom background tasks, or an application on a non-auto-instrumented framework, see our documentation about [monitoring non-web scripts or functions](/docs/agents/python-agent/supported-features/python-background-tasks).
* If you are using Docker, install the agent within each container.

To install the New Relic Python agent for an application on an [auto-instrumented framework](/docs/agents/python-agent/getting-started/instrumented-python-packages):

1. If you haven't already, [create a New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup). It's free, forever.

2. Make sure you have your New Relic [license key](/docs/subscriptions/license-key). (If you don't yet have a New Relic account, [sign up to get one](https://newrelic.com/signup).)
3. Install the **newrelic** Python package using **pip** by running:

   ```
   pip install newrelic
   ```
4. Generate the agent configuration file by running the command:

   ```
   newrelic-admin generate-config <var>YOUR_LICENSE_KEY</var> newrelic.ini
   ```
5. If you control how your web application or WSGI server is started, use the following New Relic admin script command in front of your usual startup command options:

   ```
   NEW_RELIC_CONFIG_FILE=newrelic.ini newrelic-admin run-program <var>YOUR_COMMAND_OPTIONS</var>
   ```

   If you cannot run the admin script in this way, please read the [advanced install instructions](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation-configuration/python-agent-installation) for more context and other install options.
6. Start or restart your Python web application or WSGI server. Wait five minutes, then go to the New Relic UI to view your data.

For more detailed installation procedures and helpful context, see [Python agent installation](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation-configuration/python-agent-installation).

## Other options [#other]

If you cannot use the standard install, or if you want more details and context for the install procedures, see our [advanced installation](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation-configuration/python-agent-installation) documentation. 

You can also install the Python agent in the following:

* [Google App Engine flexible environment](/docs/agents/python-agent/hosting-services/install-new-relic-python-agent-gae-flexible-environment). 
* [AWS Lambda](/docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/enable-lambda-monitoring/instrument-example/)

For more information, see [Compatibility and requirements](/docs/agents/python-agent/getting-started/compatibility-requirements-python-agent).

## What's next? [#next-steps]

For suggestions on what to do after installing the agent, see [Next steps](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation-configuration/python-agent-installation#next-steps).

Commit message:

feat(APM agent LiC): PHP Python Ruby
The APM agent docs did not have info about logs in context, so I added it to selected docs for PHP, Python, and Ruby

src/content/docs/apm/agents/python-agent/installation/standard-python-agent-install.mdx, after:

---
title: Standard Python agent install
tags:
  - Agents
  - Python agent
  - Installation
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: How to install the New Relic agent to set up performance monitoring for a Python application.
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/python-agent/installation/standard-python-agent-install
  - /docs/python/python-agent-quick-start
  - /docs/agents/python-agent/getting-started/python-agent-quick-start
---

Our Python agent auto-instruments your code so you can start monitoring applications. You can use our launcher, or follow the instructions in this document to complete a basic Python agent installation for our [supported frameworks](/docs/agents/python-agent/getting-started/instrumented-python-packages).

<ButtonLink
  role="button"
  to="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJ0dWNzb24ucGxnLWluc3RydW1lbnQtZXZlcnl0aGluZyJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJzZXR1cC1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1weXRob24taW50ZWdyYXRpb24iLCJhY2NvdW50SWQiOjI2NDA0MDl9"
  variant="primary"
>
  Add Python data
</ButtonLink>

## Standard installation [#install]

These instructions are for [applications on frameworks that the Python agent automatically instruments](/docs/agents/python-agent/getting-started/instrumented-python-packages).

* If you want to monitor non-web Python scripts, custom background tasks, or an application on a non-auto-instrumented framework, see our documentation about [monitoring non-web scripts or functions](/docs/agents/python-agent/supported-features/python-background-tasks).
* If you are using Docker, install the agent within each container.

To install the New Relic Python agent for an application on an [auto-instrumented framework](/docs/agents/python-agent/getting-started/instrumented-python-packages):

1. If you haven't already, [create a New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup). It's free, forever.

2. Make sure you have your New Relic [license key](/docs/subscriptions/license-key). (If you don't yet have a New Relic account, [sign up to get one](https://newrelic.com/signup).)
3. Install the **newrelic** Python package using **pip** by running:

   ```
   pip install newrelic
   ```
4. Generate the agent configuration file by running the command:

   ```
   newrelic-admin generate-config <var>YOUR_LICENSE_KEY</var> newrelic.ini
   ```
5. If you control how your web application or WSGI server is started, use the following New Relic admin script command in front of your usual startup command options:

   ```
   NEW_RELIC_CONFIG_FILE=newrelic.ini newrelic-admin run-program <var>YOUR_COMMAND_OPTIONS</var>
   ```

   If you cannot run the admin script in this way, please read the [advanced install instructions](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation-configuration/python-agent-installation) for more context and other install options.
6. Start or restart your Python web application or WSGI server. Wait five minutes, then go to the New Relic UI to view your data.

For more detailed installation procedures and helpful context, see [Python agent installation](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation-configuration/python-agent-installation).

## View logs for your APM and infrastructure data [#logs-context]

You can also bring your logs and application's data together to make troubleshooting easier and faster. With [logs in context](/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-python/), you can see log messages related to your errors and traces directly in your app's UI. You can also see logs in context of your [infrastructure data](/docs/logs/forward-logs/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent/), such as Kubernetes clusters. No need to switch to another UI page in New Relic One.

## Other options [#other]

If you cannot use the standard install, or if you want more details and context for the install procedures, see our [advanced installation](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation-configuration/python-agent-installation) documentation. 

You can also install the Python agent in the following:

* [Google App Engine flexible environment](/docs/agents/python-agent/hosting-services/install-new-relic-python-agent-gae-flexible-environment). 
* [AWS Lambda](/docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/enable-lambda-monitoring/instrument-example/)

For more information, see [Compatibility and requirements](/docs/agents/python-agent/getting-started/compatibility-requirements-python-agent).
