src/content/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/find-and-query-your-data.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Find and query your NGINX data in New Relic'
metaDescription: 'Learn how to access NGINX dashboards, query metrics with NRQL, create alerts, and troubleshoot data visibility issues in New Relic.'
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

## View your NGINX data in New Relic [#find-data]

Once your setup is complete and data is flowing, you can view your NGINX metrics and logs in New Relic and create custom alerts.

**Method 1: Through Integrations & Agents**
1. Go to [one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > **Integrations & Agents**
2. Click **Dashboards**
3. Find and click **NGINX OTel overview** dashboard
4. Select your account and click **View dashboard**

**Method 2: Through Infrastructure monitoring**
1. Go to [one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > **On-host integrations**
2. Search for your NGINX server by deployment name (e.g., `production-web-01`)
3. Click on your server to see detailed metrics

## Query your data with NRQL

You can create custom queries to analyze your NGINX data:

**Example queries:**

```sql
-- View request rate over time
FROM Metric SELECT rate(sum(nginx.requests), 1 minute)
WHERE nginx.deployment.name = 'production-web-01'
TIMESERIES

-- Check connection states
FROM Metric SELECT latest(nginx.connections_current)
WHERE nginx.deployment.name = 'production-web-01'
FACET state

-- Analyze log patterns (if log forwarding enabled)
FROM Log SELECT count(*)
WHERE nginx.deployment.name = 'production-web-01'
FACET status SINCE 1 hour ago
```

## Troubleshoot data visibility

If you don't see data:

1. Allow some time - Initial data ingestion can take a few minutes
2. Check the time range - Ensure you're looking at recent data
3. Verify deployment name - Use the exact name from your Collector config
4. Check for data with NRQL:
   ```sql
   FROM Metric SELECT * WHERE nginx.deployment.name LIKE '%production%' LIMIT 1
   ```

If data appears intermittent:

1. Check Collector logs for errors:
   ```bash
   sudo journalctl -u otelcol-contrib -n 50
   ```
2. Verify NGINX is generating traffic - Test with `curl http://localhost`
3. Check authentication - Ensure license key and endpoint are correct

## Next steps [#next-steps]

**Learn more about your data:**
- [NGINX OpenTelemetry metrics and attributes reference](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-metrics-reference/) - Complete metrics reference with descriptions and examples
- [Introduction to NRQL](/docs/nrql/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language/) - Learn New Relic's query language for advanced data analysis
- [Create NRQL alert conditions](/docs/alerts/create-alert/create-alert-condition/create-nrql-alert-conditions/) - Set up custom alerts based on your NGINX metrics

**Setup guides:**
- [Monitor self-hosted NGINX with OpenTelemetry](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-host/) - Complete setup for on-host deployments
- [Monitor NGINX on Kubernetes with OpenTelemetry](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-kubernetes/) - Complete setup for Kubernetes deployments
- [NGINX OpenTelemetry overview](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-overview/) - Understand collected metrics, attributes, and use cases

Commit message:

fix: Added back docker otel page indexes and fix nginx redirects

src/content/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/find-and-query-your-data.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Find and query your NGINX data in New Relic'
metaDescription: 'Learn how to access NGINX dashboards, query metrics with NRQL, create alerts, and troubleshoot data visibility issues in New Relic.'
redirects:
  - /docs/opentelemetry/nginx/find-and-query-your-data
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

## View your NGINX data in New Relic [#find-data]

Once your setup is complete and data is flowing, you can view your NGINX metrics and logs in New Relic and create custom alerts.

**Method 1: Through Integrations & Agents**
1. Go to [one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > **Integrations & Agents**
2. Click **Dashboards**
3. Find and click **NGINX OTel overview** dashboard
4. Select your account and click **View dashboard**

**Method 2: Through Infrastructure monitoring**
1. Go to [one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > **On-host integrations**
2. Search for your NGINX server by deployment name (e.g., `production-web-01`)
3. Click on your server to see detailed metrics

## Query your data with NRQL

You can create custom queries to analyze your NGINX data:

**Example queries:**

```sql
-- View request rate over time
FROM Metric SELECT rate(sum(nginx.requests), 1 minute)
WHERE nginx.deployment.name = 'production-web-01'
TIMESERIES

-- Check connection states
FROM Metric SELECT latest(nginx.connections_current)
WHERE nginx.deployment.name = 'production-web-01'
FACET state

-- Analyze log patterns (if log forwarding enabled)
FROM Log SELECT count(*)
WHERE nginx.deployment.name = 'production-web-01'
FACET status SINCE 1 hour ago
```

## Troubleshoot data visibility

If you don't see data:

1. Allow some time - Initial data ingestion can take a few minutes
2. Check the time range - Ensure you're looking at recent data
3. Verify deployment name - Use the exact name from your Collector config
4. Check for data with NRQL:
   ```sql
   FROM Metric SELECT * WHERE nginx.deployment.name LIKE '%production%' LIMIT 1
   ```

If data appears intermittent:

1. Check Collector logs for errors:
   ```bash
   sudo journalctl -u otelcol-contrib -n 50
   ```
2. Verify NGINX is generating traffic - Test with `curl http://localhost`
3. Check authentication - Ensure license key and endpoint are correct

## Next steps [#next-steps]

**Learn more about your data:**
- [NGINX OpenTelemetry metrics and attributes reference](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-metrics-reference/) - Complete metrics reference with descriptions and examples
- [Introduction to NRQL](/docs/nrql/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language/) - Learn New Relic's query language for advanced data analysis
- [Create NRQL alert conditions](/docs/alerts/create-alert/create-alert-condition/create-nrql-alert-conditions/) - Set up custom alerts based on your NGINX metrics

**Setup guides:**
- [Monitor self-hosted NGINX with OpenTelemetry](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-host/) - Complete setup for on-host deployments
- [Monitor NGINX on Kubernetes with OpenTelemetry](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-kubernetes/) - Complete setup for Kubernetes deployments
- [NGINX OpenTelemetry overview](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-overview/) - Understand collected metrics, attributes, and use cases
