src/content/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-kubernetes.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Monitor NGINX on Kubernetes with OpenTelemetry'
metaDescription: 'Send your NGINX metrics from Kubernetes to New Relic using the OpenTelemetry Collector.'
redirects:
  - /docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/nginx/nginx-otel-kubernetes
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

Monitor your NGINX servers running in Kubernetes clusters using the [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib) to send metrics and telemetry data to New Relic.

This Kubernetes-specific integration automatically discovers NGINX pods in your cluster and collects metrics without manual configuration for each instance. It leverages the OpenTelemetry [nginxreceiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/nginxreceiver) and [receivercreator](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/receivercreator) to dynamically monitor NGINX performance metrics, connection statistics, and server health across your containerized environment.

## Before you begin [#prerequisites]

Ensure you have:

- A [New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup) with a <InlinePopover type="licenseKey"/>
- Enable the [HTTP stub status](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_stub_status_module.html) module on NGINX pod that needs to be monitored
- Add labels `app` and `role` to each NGINX pod that needs to be monitored

## Install and configure the OpenTelemetry Collector [#install-collector]

Deploy the OpenTelemetry Collector to your Kubernetes cluster using Helm. The collector will automatically discover and scrape metrics from your NGINX pods.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser id="k8s-create-secret" title="Create Kubernetes secret for credentials">
    Create a Kubernetes secret to store your New Relic credentials. Replace `YOUR_LICENSE_KEY` and `YOUR_OTLP_ENDPOINT` with your actual values. Refer to the OTLP endpoint configuration [documentation](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/#configure-endpoint-port-protocol) to select the appropriate endpoint for your region.

    ```bash
    kubectl create namespace newrelic
    kubectl create secret generic newrelic-licenses --from-literal=NEWRELIC_LICENSE_KEY=YOUR_LICENSE_KEY --from-literal=NEWRELIC_OTLP_ENDPOINT=YOUR_OTLP_ENDPOINT
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser id="k8s-values-yaml" title="Create values.yaml configuration">
    Create a `values.yaml` file to configure the OpenTelemetry Collector. Update the placeholders for your cluster name, NGINX pod labels, stub status port and path.

    ```yaml
    opentelemetry-collector:
      mode: deployment

      image:
        repository: otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib
        pullPolicy: IfNotPresent

      command:
        name: otelcol-contrib

      resources:
        limits:
          cpu: 500m
          memory: 300Mi
        requests:
          cpu: 100m
          memory: 100Mi

      extraEnvs:
        - name: NEWRELIC_LICENSE_KEY
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: newrelic-licenses
              key: NEWRELIC_LICENSE_KEY
        - name: NEWRELIC_OTLP_ENDPOINT
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: newrelic-licenses
              key: NEWRELIC_OTLP_ENDPOINT
        - name: K8S_NODE_NAME
          valueFrom:
            fieldRef:
              fieldPath: spec.nodeName
        - name: K8S_CLUSTER_NAME
          value: nginx-cluster # Update with your cluster name

      clusterRole:
        create: true
        rules:
          - apiGroups: [""]
            resources: ["pods", "nodes", "nodes/stats", "nodes/proxy"]
            verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
          - apiGroups: ["apps"]
            resources: ["replicasets"]
            verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
        clusterRoleBinding:
          name: ""

      config:
        extensions:
          health_check:
            endpoint: 0.0.0.0:13133
          k8s_observer:
            auth_type: serviceAccount
            observe_pods: true
            observe_nodes: true

        receivers:
          receiver_creator/nginx:
            watch_observers: [k8s_observer]
            receivers:
              nginx:
                rule: type == "pod" && labels["app"] == "nginx" && labels["role"] == "reverse-proxy" # Update with your labels
                config:
                  endpoint: 'http://`endpoint`:<stub_status_port>/status'
                  metrics:
                    nginx.requests:
                      enabled: true
                    nginx.connections_accepted:
                      enabled: true
                    nginx.connections_handled:
                      enabled: true
                    nginx.connections_current:
                      enabled: true
                  collection_interval: 30s
                resource_attributes:
                  nginx.server.endpoint: 'http://`endpoint`:<stub_status_port>/status'
                  nginx.port: '<stub_status_port>'

        processors:
          batch:
            send_batch_size: 1024
            timeout: 30s

          resource/cluster:
            attributes:
              - key: k8s.cluster.name
                value: "${env:K8S_CLUSTER_NAME}"
                action: insert

          transform/nginx:
            metric_statements:
              - context: resource
                statements:
                  - set(attributes["nginx.display.name"], Concat([
                      "server",
                      "k8s",
                      attributes["k8s.cluster.name"],
                      attributes["k8s.namespace.name"],
                      "pod",
                      attributes["k8s.pod.name"],
                      "nginx",
                      attributes["nginx.port"]
                      ], ":"))
                  - set(attributes["nginx.deployment.name"], attributes["k8s.pod.name"])

          transform/metadata_nullify:
            metric_statements:
              - context: metric
                statements:
                  - set(description, "")
                  - set(unit, "")

        exporters:
          otlp_http:
            endpoint: "${env:NEWRELIC_OTLP_ENDPOINT}"
            headers:
              api-key: "${env:NEWRELIC_LICENSE_KEY}"

        service:
          extensions: [health_check, k8s_observer]
          pipelines:
            metrics/nginx:
              receivers: [receiver_creator/nginx]
              processors: [batch, resource/cluster, transform/nginx, transform/metadata_nullify]
              exporters: [otlp_http]
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser id="k8s-install-helm" title="Install with Helm">
    Install the [Helm chart](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-helm-charts) using your values.yaml file.

    ```bash
    helm repo add open-telemetry https://open-telemetry.github.io/opentelemetry-helm-charts
    helm repo update
    helm upgrade --install nginx-otel-collector open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector --namespace newrelic --create-namespace -f values.yaml
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser id="k8s-verify-deployment" title="Verify deployment and data collection">
    1. **Ensure the pods have successfully spun up:**

       ```bash
       kubectl get pods -n newrelic --watch
       ```

       You should see pods with names like `nginx-otel-collector-<hash>` in a `Running` state in the `newrelic` namespace.

    2. **Run an NRQL query in New Relic to confirm data is arriving.** Replace the cluster name with the value you set in the values file:

       ```sql
       FROM Metric
       SELECT *
       WHERE metricName LIKE 'nginx.%'
         AND instrumentation.provider = 'opentelemetry'
         AND k8s.cluster.name = 'nginx-cluster'
       SINCE 10 minutes ago
       ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Find and use data [#find-data]

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Integrations & Agents**.
2. Select **Dashboards**, and click **NGINX OTel overview dashboard**.
3. In the popup window, select your account.
4. Click View dashboard, and see your NGINX data in New Relic.

The NGINX metrics are attached to the `Metric` [event type](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/new-relic-data-types#events-new-relic). You can [query this data](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data) for troubleshooting purposes or to create custom charts and dashboards.

## Metrics and attributes reference [#metrics]

This integration collects the same core NGINX metrics as the on-host deployment, with additional Kubernetes-specific resource attributes for cluster, namespace, and pod identification.

**For complete metrics and attributes reference:** See [NGINX OpenTelemetry metrics and attributes reference](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-metrics-reference/) for detailed descriptions of all metrics, types, and resource attributes for Kubernetes deployments.

## Next steps [#next-steps]

**Learn more about your data:**
- [Find and query your NGINX data](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx/find-and-query-your-data/) - Access dashboards, create custom queries, and set up alerts
- [NGINX OpenTelemetry metrics and attributes reference](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-metrics-reference/) - Complete metrics reference with descriptions and examples
- [NGINX OpenTelemetry overview](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-overview/) - Understand collected metrics, attributes, and use cases
- [NGINX receiver documentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/receiver/nginxreceiver/documentation.md) - Technical details and advanced configuration

**Explore related monitoring:**
- [Monitor NGINX Plus with OpenTelemetry](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx-plus/nginx-plus-otel/) - For commercial NGINX Plus deployments
- [Monitor self-hosted NGINX with OpenTelemetry](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-host/) - For traditional server deployments
- [OpenTelemetry best practices](/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/) - Optimize your OpenTelemetry setup

**Kubernetes-specific resources:**
- [OpenTelemetry Collector on Kubernetes](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/kubernetes/) - Advanced collector configurations

Commit message:

fix: Added back docker otel page indexes and fix nginx redirects

src/content/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-kubernetes.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Monitor NGINX on Kubernetes with OpenTelemetry'
metaDescription: 'Send your NGINX metrics from Kubernetes to New Relic using the OpenTelemetry Collector.'
redirects:
  - /docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-kubernetes
  - /docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/nginx/nginx-otel-kubernetes
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

Monitor your NGINX servers running in Kubernetes clusters using the [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib) to send metrics and telemetry data to New Relic.

This Kubernetes-specific integration automatically discovers NGINX pods in your cluster and collects metrics without manual configuration for each instance. It leverages the OpenTelemetry [nginxreceiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/nginxreceiver) and [receivercreator](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/receivercreator) to dynamically monitor NGINX performance metrics, connection statistics, and server health across your containerized environment.

## Before you begin [#prerequisites]

Ensure you have:

- A [New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup) with a <InlinePopover type="licenseKey"/>
- Enable the [HTTP stub status](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_stub_status_module.html) module on NGINX pod that needs to be monitored
- Add labels `app` and `role` to each NGINX pod that needs to be monitored

## Install and configure the OpenTelemetry Collector [#install-collector]

Deploy the OpenTelemetry Collector to your Kubernetes cluster using Helm. The collector will automatically discover and scrape metrics from your NGINX pods.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser id="k8s-create-secret" title="Create Kubernetes secret for credentials">
    Create a Kubernetes secret to store your New Relic credentials. Replace `YOUR_LICENSE_KEY` and `YOUR_OTLP_ENDPOINT` with your actual values. Refer to the OTLP endpoint configuration [documentation](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/#configure-endpoint-port-protocol) to select the appropriate endpoint for your region.

    ```bash
    kubectl create namespace newrelic
    kubectl create secret generic newrelic-licenses --from-literal=NEWRELIC_LICENSE_KEY=YOUR_LICENSE_KEY --from-literal=NEWRELIC_OTLP_ENDPOINT=YOUR_OTLP_ENDPOINT
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser id="k8s-values-yaml" title="Create values.yaml configuration">
    Create a `values.yaml` file to configure the OpenTelemetry Collector. Update the placeholders for your cluster name, NGINX pod labels, stub status port and path.

    ```yaml
    opentelemetry-collector:
      mode: deployment

      image:
        repository: otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib
        pullPolicy: IfNotPresent

      command:
        name: otelcol-contrib

      resources:
        limits:
          cpu: 500m
          memory: 300Mi
        requests:
          cpu: 100m
          memory: 100Mi

      extraEnvs:
        - name: NEWRELIC_LICENSE_KEY
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: newrelic-licenses
              key: NEWRELIC_LICENSE_KEY
        - name: NEWRELIC_OTLP_ENDPOINT
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: newrelic-licenses
              key: NEWRELIC_OTLP_ENDPOINT
        - name: K8S_NODE_NAME
          valueFrom:
            fieldRef:
              fieldPath: spec.nodeName
        - name: K8S_CLUSTER_NAME
          value: nginx-cluster # Update with your cluster name

      clusterRole:
        create: true
        rules:
          - apiGroups: [""]
            resources: ["pods", "nodes", "nodes/stats", "nodes/proxy"]
            verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
          - apiGroups: ["apps"]
            resources: ["replicasets"]
            verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
        clusterRoleBinding:
          name: ""

      config:
        extensions:
          health_check:
            endpoint: 0.0.0.0:13133
          k8s_observer:
            auth_type: serviceAccount
            observe_pods: true
            observe_nodes: true

        receivers:
          receiver_creator/nginx:
            watch_observers: [k8s_observer]
            receivers:
              nginx:
                rule: type == "pod" && labels["app"] == "nginx" && labels["role"] == "reverse-proxy" # Update with your labels
                config:
                  endpoint: 'http://`endpoint`:<stub_status_port>/status'
                  metrics:
                    nginx.requests:
                      enabled: true
                    nginx.connections_accepted:
                      enabled: true
                    nginx.connections_handled:
                      enabled: true
                    nginx.connections_current:
                      enabled: true
                  collection_interval: 30s
                resource_attributes:
                  nginx.server.endpoint: 'http://`endpoint`:<stub_status_port>/status'
                  nginx.port: '<stub_status_port>'

        processors:
          batch:
            send_batch_size: 1024
            timeout: 30s

          resource/cluster:
            attributes:
              - key: k8s.cluster.name
                value: "${env:K8S_CLUSTER_NAME}"
                action: insert

          transform/nginx:
            metric_statements:
              - context: resource
                statements:
                  - set(attributes["nginx.display.name"], Concat([
                      "server",
                      "k8s",
                      attributes["k8s.cluster.name"],
                      attributes["k8s.namespace.name"],
                      "pod",
                      attributes["k8s.pod.name"],
                      "nginx",
                      attributes["nginx.port"]
                      ], ":"))
                  - set(attributes["nginx.deployment.name"], attributes["k8s.pod.name"])

          transform/metadata_nullify:
            metric_statements:
              - context: metric
                statements:
                  - set(description, "")
                  - set(unit, "")

        exporters:
          otlp_http:
            endpoint: "${env:NEWRELIC_OTLP_ENDPOINT}"
            headers:
              api-key: "${env:NEWRELIC_LICENSE_KEY}"

        service:
          extensions: [health_check, k8s_observer]
          pipelines:
            metrics/nginx:
              receivers: [receiver_creator/nginx]
              processors: [batch, resource/cluster, transform/nginx, transform/metadata_nullify]
              exporters: [otlp_http]
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser id="k8s-install-helm" title="Install with Helm">
    Install the [Helm chart](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-helm-charts) using your values.yaml file.

    ```bash
    helm repo add open-telemetry https://open-telemetry.github.io/opentelemetry-helm-charts
    helm repo update
    helm upgrade --install nginx-otel-collector open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector --namespace newrelic --create-namespace -f values.yaml
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser id="k8s-verify-deployment" title="Verify deployment and data collection">
    1. **Ensure the pods have successfully spun up:**

       ```bash
       kubectl get pods -n newrelic --watch
       ```

       You should see pods with names like `nginx-otel-collector-<hash>` in a `Running` state in the `newrelic` namespace.

    2. **Run an NRQL query in New Relic to confirm data is arriving.** Replace the cluster name with the value you set in the values file:

       ```sql
       FROM Metric
       SELECT *
       WHERE metricName LIKE 'nginx.%'
         AND instrumentation.provider = 'opentelemetry'
         AND k8s.cluster.name = 'nginx-cluster'
       SINCE 10 minutes ago
       ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Find and use data [#find-data]

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Integrations & Agents**.
2. Select **Dashboards**, and click **NGINX OTel overview dashboard**.
3. In the popup window, select your account.
4. Click View dashboard, and see your NGINX data in New Relic.

The NGINX metrics are attached to the `Metric` [event type](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/new-relic-data-types#events-new-relic). You can [query this data](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data) for troubleshooting purposes or to create custom charts and dashboards.

## Metrics and attributes reference [#metrics]

This integration collects the same core NGINX metrics as the on-host deployment, with additional Kubernetes-specific resource attributes for cluster, namespace, and pod identification.

**For complete metrics and attributes reference:** See [NGINX OpenTelemetry metrics and attributes reference](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-metrics-reference/) for detailed descriptions of all metrics, types, and resource attributes for Kubernetes deployments.

## Next steps [#next-steps]

**Learn more about your data:**
- [Find and query your NGINX data](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/find-and-query-your-data/) - Access dashboards, create custom queries, and set up alerts
- [NGINX OpenTelemetry metrics and attributes reference](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-metrics-reference/) - Complete metrics reference with descriptions and examples
- [NGINX OpenTelemetry overview](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-overview/) - Understand collected metrics, attributes, and use cases
- [NGINX receiver documentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/receiver/nginxreceiver/documentation.md) - Technical details and advanced configuration

**Explore related monitoring:**
- [Monitor NGINX Plus with OpenTelemetry](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx-plus/nginx-plus-otel/) - For commercial NGINX Plus deployments
- [Monitor self-hosted NGINX with OpenTelemetry](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-host/) - For traditional server deployments
- [OpenTelemetry best practices](/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/) - Optimize your OpenTelemetry setup

**Kubernetes-specific resources:**
- [OpenTelemetry Collector on Kubernetes](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/kubernetes/) - Advanced collector configurations
