src/content/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-overview.mdx, before:

---
title: 'NGINX OpenTelemetry monitoring overview'
metaDescription: 'Learn about monitoring self-hosted NGINX with OpenTelemetry, its benefits, use cases, and collected metrics for comprehensive observability.'
redirects:
  - /docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/nginx/nginx-otel-overview
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

Get complete visibility into your NGINX web servers with OpenTelemetry integration. This solution uses the [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib) and [nginxreceiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/nginxreceiver) to automatically collect and send performance data, connection statistics, and operational insights to New Relic.

<img
  title="NGINX dashboard"
  alt="Image of the NGINX dashboard"
  src="/images/opentelemetry_screenshot-nginx-dashboard.webp"
/>

<figcaption>
  Dashboard available through the [New Relic NGINX OpenTelemetry Monitor quickstart](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability/nginx-opentelemetry).
</figcaption>

<Callout variant="important">
  - To monitor **NGINX Plus**, see [Monitor NGINX Plus with OpenTelemetry](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx-plus/nginx-plus-otel/).
  - To monitor **NGINX on Kubernetes**, see [Monitor NGINX on Kubernetes with OpenTelemetry](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-kubernetes/).
  - Ready to implement? Continue to [NGINX OpenTelemetry setup guide](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-host/).
</Callout>

## Why monitor NGINX with OpenTelemetry? [#why-monitor]

NGINX monitoring is essential for maintaining web application performance and reliability. OpenTelemetry provides a standardized approach to collect and analyze this critical data.

### Key benefits

- **Performance optimization**: Identify bottlenecks, track response times, make data-driven scaling decisions
- **Proactive monitoring**: Get alerts before user impact, detect issues early
- **Operational insights**: Understand traffic patterns, track SLA compliance, maintain audit trails
- **Future-proof**: Open-source OpenTelemetry standard, vendor-neutral integration

### Use case

Whether you're running an e-commerce website, API gateway, or content delivery platform, NGINX monitoring helps you maintain fast, reliable web services. Get notified when your checkout process slows down, detect when your API endpoints are overwhelmed, or identify which geographic regions are experiencing issues. This monitoring is essential for websites handling customer transactions, mobile app backends, microservices architectures, and any web application where downtime or slow performance directly impacts your users and business.

## Available metrics [#metrics]

The OpenTelemetry Collector automatically collects key NGINX performance metrics including connection statistics, request counts, and server health indicators.

**Key metrics collected:**
- **Connection metrics** - Active, accepted, handled connections and their states
- **Request metrics** - Total requests and request rates over time
- **Server health** - Connection efficiency and performance indicators

**For complete metrics and attributes reference:** See [NGINX OpenTelemetry metrics and attributes reference](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-metrics-reference/) for detailed descriptions, metric types, and resource attributes for both on-host and Kubernetes deployments.

## Next steps [#next-steps]

Ready to start monitoring your NGINX servers?

**Continue to the implementation guide:**
- [NGINX OpenTelemetry setup guide](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-host/) - Complete step-by-step instructions for configuration, setup, and troubleshooting

**Explore related monitoring options:**
- [Monitor NGINX Plus with OpenTelemetry](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx-plus/nginx-plus-otel/) - For commercial NGINX Plus deployments
- [Monitor NGINX on Kubernetes](/docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-kubernetes/) - For containerized environments

**Learn more about OpenTelemetry:**
- [OpenTelemetry best practices](/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/) - Optimize your OpenTelemetry setup
- [OpenTelemetry Collector documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/) - Comprehensive collector reference

Commit message:

fix: Added back docker otel page indexes and fix nginx redirects

src/content/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-overview.mdx, after:

---
title: 'NGINX OpenTelemetry monitoring overview'
metaDescription: 'Learn about monitoring self-hosted NGINX with OpenTelemetry, its benefits, use cases, and collected metrics for comprehensive observability.'
redirects:
  - /docs/opentelemetry/nginx/nginx-otel-overview
  - /docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/nginx/nginx-otel-overview
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

Get complete visibility into your NGINX web servers with OpenTelemetry integration. This solution uses the [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib) and [nginxreceiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/nginxreceiver) to automatically collect and send performance data, connection statistics, and operational insights to New Relic.

<img
  title="NGINX dashboard"
  alt="Image of the NGINX dashboard"
  src="/images/opentelemetry_screenshot-nginx-dashboard.webp"
/>

<figcaption>
  Dashboard available through the [New Relic NGINX OpenTelemetry Monitor quickstart](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability/nginx-opentelemetry).
</figcaption>

<Callout variant="important">
  - To monitor **NGINX Plus**, see [Monitor NGINX Plus with OpenTelemetry](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx-plus/nginx-plus-otel/).
  - To monitor **NGINX on Kubernetes**, see [Monitor NGINX on Kubernetes with OpenTelemetry](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-kubernetes/).
  - Ready to implement? Continue to [NGINX OpenTelemetry setup guide](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-host/).
</Callout>

## Why monitor NGINX with OpenTelemetry? [#why-monitor]

NGINX monitoring is essential for maintaining web application performance and reliability. OpenTelemetry provides a standardized approach to collect and analyze this critical data.

### Key benefits

- **Performance optimization**: Identify bottlenecks, track response times, make data-driven scaling decisions
- **Proactive monitoring**: Get alerts before user impact, detect issues early
- **Operational insights**: Understand traffic patterns, track SLA compliance, maintain audit trails
- **Future-proof**: Open-source OpenTelemetry standard, vendor-neutral integration

### Use case

Whether you're running an e-commerce website, API gateway, or content delivery platform, NGINX monitoring helps you maintain fast, reliable web services. Get notified when your checkout process slows down, detect when your API endpoints are overwhelmed, or identify which geographic regions are experiencing issues. This monitoring is essential for websites handling customer transactions, mobile app backends, microservices architectures, and any web application where downtime or slow performance directly impacts your users and business.

## Available metrics [#metrics]

The OpenTelemetry Collector automatically collects key NGINX performance metrics including connection statistics, request counts, and server health indicators.

**Key metrics collected:**
- **Connection metrics** - Active, accepted, handled connections and their states
- **Request metrics** - Total requests and request rates over time
- **Server health** - Connection efficiency and performance indicators

**For complete metrics and attributes reference:** See [NGINX OpenTelemetry metrics and attributes reference](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-metrics-reference/) for detailed descriptions, metric types, and resource attributes for both on-host and Kubernetes deployments.

## Next steps [#next-steps]

Ready to start monitoring your NGINX servers?

**Continue to the implementation guide:**
- [NGINX OpenTelemetry setup guide](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-host/) - Complete step-by-step instructions for configuration, setup, and troubleshooting

**Explore related monitoring options:**
- [Monitor NGINX Plus with OpenTelemetry](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx-plus/nginx-plus-otel/) - For commercial NGINX Plus deployments
- [Monitor NGINX on Kubernetes](/docs/opentelemetry/integrations/nginx/nginx-otel-kubernetes/) - For containerized environments

**Learn more about OpenTelemetry:**
- [OpenTelemetry best practices](/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/) - Optimize your OpenTelemetry setup
- [OpenTelemetry Collector documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/) - Comprehensive collector reference
