src/content/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile/get-started/introduction-mobile-monitoring.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction to mobile monitoring
tags:
  - Mobile monitoring
  - New Relic Mobile
  - Get started
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: Use New Relic's mobile monitoring capabilities to manage the performance of your iOS and Android apps and your customers' overall digital experience.
redirects:
  - /docs/mobile-apps/new-relic-for-mobile-apps
  - /docs/mobile-apps/new-relic-mobile
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile/getting-started/new-relic-mobile
  - /docs/mobile-extensible-agent-sessions-api
  - /docs/mobile-extensible-agent-best-practices-guide
  - /docs/compatibility-requirements-mobile-extensible-agent
  - /docs/update-mobile-extensible-agent
  - /docs/disable-or-uninstall-mobile-extensible-agent
  - /docs/mobile-extensible-agent-api
  - /docs/mobile-extensible-agent-view-ui
  - /docs/install-mobile-extensible-agent
  - /docs/mobile-react-native-agent-view-ui
  - /docs/introduction-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/introduction-mobile-development-tools
  - /docs/compatibility-requirements-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/mobile-react-native-agent-best-practices-guide
  - /docs/install-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/update-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/disable-or-uninstall-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/get-started/introduction-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/mobile-react-native-troubleshoot-crashes-js-errors-ui
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/get-started/mobile-react-native-agent-best-practices-guide
  - /docs/mobile-react-native-agent-api
  - /docs/known-issues-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/get-started/introduction-mobile-development-tools
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-mobile
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/get-started/mobile-development-tools
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/install-configure/install-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/introduction-mobile-extensible-agent
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/get-started/introduction-mobile-react-native
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/get-started/compatibility-requirements-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/troubleshooting/mobile-react-native-troubleshoot-crashes-js-errors-ui
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/customize/mobile-react-native-agent-api
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/customize/customize-query-mobile-app-data-react-native
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/troubleshooting/no-data-appears-react-native
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/get-started/mobile-react-native-best-practices-guide
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/troubleshooting/troubleshoot-react-native-known-issues
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/install-configure/update-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /taxonomy/term/10236
---

New Relic's mobile monitoring capabilities help you gain deeper visibility into how to analyze your [Android](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/introduction-new-relic-mobile-android) and [iOS](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/get-started/introduction-new-relic-mobile-ios) application performance and troubleshoot crashes. You can also examine HTTP and other network performance for unexpected lag, which will in turn help you collaborate more efficiently with your backend teams.

## How we use mobile monitoring [#features]

At New Relic, we have our own mobile developers who create iOS and Android apps so our customers can use New Relic from their mobile devices. During a feature deploy, we encountered a small bug that caused an edge case crash with our Android app. This happened after we had created, tested, and deployed the new feature.

Because we work at New Relic, we also use New Relic One to analyze and troubleshoot our mobile apps. To give you an idea of how to explore the power of mobile monitoring, here's an example of how our own mobile engineers used it to track this small bug.

![Crash analysis workflow with mobile monitoring](./images/crash-analysis-workflow.jpg "Crash analysis workflow with mobile monitoring")

<figcaption>
  A workflow to identify and resolve mobile app crashes using New Relic.
</figcaption>

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="alert"
    title="1. Alert notification shows new version crashes"
  >
    The night after a new release, our on-call developer received an [alert notification on his mobile phone](/docs/mobile-apps/new-relic-mobile-apps/authentication-alerts/alerting-new-relic-mobile-apps). The [**Alerts** page](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile/getting-started/alert-information-new-relic-mobile) indicated that some customers were seeing crashes on the new version of our Android app.

    Moving to his desktop browser, he checked the [**Summary** page](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/mobile-app-pages/mobile-apps-overview-page). The overview showed an increase in crashes for the newest version. By filtering for the latest version and setting the [time picker](/docs/using-new-relic/user-interface-functions/view-your-data/time-picker-set-time-periods-view-data) to the past 24 hours, he could proceed with crash analysis.

    ![New Relic One: Mobile summary](./images/mobile-nrOne-summary072820.png "New Relic One: Mobile summary")

    <figcaption>
      An example of using the mobile **Summary** page to filter to an Android version with crashes.
    </figcaption>
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="crash-analysis"
    title="2. Crash analysis pinpoints exception, location, and more"
  >
    By clicking the **Crashes** chart title on the mobile **Summary** page, the [**Crash analysis** page](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/crashes/crash-analysis-group-filter-your-crashes) opened with the same 24-hour time frame and filter to this Android version. Here our developer could see a significant number of crashes for the selected version. This reinforced his suspicion there was bad code somewhere in the recent deployment.

    The developer clicked the link for the crash type to examine the exception, location, and error message. He also examined the stack trace, interaction trail, and event trail to quickly understand where users were impacted.

    ![New Relic One: Mobile crash analysis](./images/mobile-nrOne-crash.png "New Relic One: Mobile crash analysis")

    <figcaption>
      An example of using the **Crash analysis** page to track down the cause for crashes for a new release by examining the exception, location, and error message.
    </figcaption>

    From here the developer saw the error. The new feature had a specific line of bad code that was crashing the app for customers who only used New Relic to monitor one app rather than multiple apps. The team released a hot fix in less than an hour, and the crash rate quickly de-escalated to 0.2%.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="more-resources"
    title="3. Problem solved, focus on improving app performance"
  >
    The problem was solved, but the team continues to use New Relic to make sure the most important workflows are running correctly and quickly. We also share HTTP and other network performance trends with our backend API developer teams.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Improve frontend and backend performance [#backend]

More than a tool for crash analysis, our mobile monitoring capabilities can help you identify opportunities to speed app performance. For example, you can:

* Create [dashboards](/docs/dashboards/new-relic-one-dashboards/get-started/introduction-new-relic-one-dashboards) to query, visualize, and share performance data.
* Identify [handled exceptions](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/crashes/introduction-mobile-handled-exceptions) to streamline workflows.
* See trends with sessions, devices, geographical locations, operating systems, carriers, requests and responses, etc. with [crash profiles](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/crashes/crash-analysis-group-filter-your-crashes) and [HTTP profiles](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/network-pages/mobile-http-error-profiles-find-error-causes).
* Set up [alert notifications](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile/getting-started/alert-information-new-relic-mobile) for execution time, errors, etc.
* Define [custom attributes and events](/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/custom-events/insert-custom-events-attributes-mobile-data) to obtain additional, specific details about the mobile data that matters the most to your organization.

And more!

![Do more with New Relic Mobile](./images/next-steps_2.jpg "Do more with New Relic Mobile")

<figcaption>
  In addition to crash analysis, do more to fine-tune mobile app performance.
</figcaption>

Great mobile apps increasingly rely on backend systems to power their functionality, such as requesting product information, authenticating users, or streaming media content. But some backend issues can lead to upstream mobile app crashes, freezes, and broken functionality that impacts end users, including:

* Changed or non-versioned API endpoints
* Bad payloads
* API timeouts
* Slow or deprecated API endpoints

You can use the [network pages](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/network-pages) in our mobile monitoring UI to identify problems that surface through HTTP requests, errors, and other network issues. You can also [query your data](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data). Then create dashboards and share this information with backend API developer teams and others in your organization to help improve the overall end user experience with your mobile app.

You can also improve your customers' overall digital experience:

* Get rapid visibility into how your end users experience your mobile apps and [web browsers](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-browser).
* Analyze [actual](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-browser) or [simulated](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-synthetics) end-user behavior to hone in on metrics like load time, availability, and errors, while staying grounded in the backend services that enable these digital experiences.

## Get started with mobile monitoring [#new_users]

Before you install and configure New Relic's functionality for your mobile applications, follow these guidelines for compatibility and other requirements:

* [Android compatibility and requirements](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/new-relic-android-compatibility-requirements)
* [iOS compatibility and requirements](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/get-started/new-relic-ios-compatibility-requirements)

Then continue with the installation and configuration procedures for your [Android](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/android-installation-configuration), [iOS](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/get-started/ios-installation-configuration), [tvOS](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/tvos/tvos-installation-configuration), or [Cordova](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-cordova-phonegap/get-started/introduction-new-relic-cordova) application.

Commit message:

feat(Signups CTAs): More
More CTAs for Pixie, Kubernetes, mobile monitoring

src/content/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile/get-started/introduction-mobile-monitoring.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction to mobile monitoring
tags:
  - Mobile monitoring
  - New Relic Mobile
  - Get started
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: Use New Relic's mobile monitoring capabilities to manage the performance of your iOS and Android apps and your customers' overall digital experience.
redirects:
  - /docs/mobile-apps/new-relic-for-mobile-apps
  - /docs/mobile-apps/new-relic-mobile
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile/getting-started/new-relic-mobile
  - /docs/mobile-extensible-agent-sessions-api
  - /docs/mobile-extensible-agent-best-practices-guide
  - /docs/compatibility-requirements-mobile-extensible-agent
  - /docs/update-mobile-extensible-agent
  - /docs/disable-or-uninstall-mobile-extensible-agent
  - /docs/mobile-extensible-agent-api
  - /docs/mobile-extensible-agent-view-ui
  - /docs/install-mobile-extensible-agent
  - /docs/mobile-react-native-agent-view-ui
  - /docs/introduction-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/introduction-mobile-development-tools
  - /docs/compatibility-requirements-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/mobile-react-native-agent-best-practices-guide
  - /docs/install-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/update-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/disable-or-uninstall-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/get-started/introduction-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/mobile-react-native-troubleshoot-crashes-js-errors-ui
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/get-started/mobile-react-native-agent-best-practices-guide
  - /docs/mobile-react-native-agent-api
  - /docs/known-issues-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/get-started/introduction-mobile-development-tools
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-mobile
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/get-started/mobile-development-tools
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/install-configure/install-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/introduction-mobile-extensible-agent
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/get-started/introduction-mobile-react-native
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/get-started/compatibility-requirements-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/troubleshooting/mobile-react-native-troubleshoot-crashes-js-errors-ui
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/customize/mobile-react-native-agent-api
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/customize/customize-query-mobile-app-data-react-native
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/troubleshooting/no-data-appears-react-native
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/get-started/mobile-react-native-best-practices-guide
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/troubleshooting/troubleshoot-react-native-known-issues
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-react-native/install-configure/update-mobile-react-native-agent
  - /taxonomy/term/10236
---

New Relic's mobile monitoring capabilities help you gain deeper visibility into how to analyze your [Android](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/introduction-new-relic-mobile-android) and [iOS](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/get-started/introduction-new-relic-mobile-ios) application performance and troubleshoot crashes. You can also examine HTTP and other network performance for unexpected lag, which will in turn help you collaborate more efficiently with your backend teams.

You'll be able to configure mobile monitoring to suit your environnment after you [create a New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup) (it's free, forever!) and [install mobile monitoring](#new_users) for your Android, iOS, or Cordova environment.

## How we use mobile monitoring [#features]

At New Relic, we have our own mobile developers who create iOS and Android apps so our customers can use New Relic from their mobile devices. During a feature deploy, we encountered a small bug that caused an edge case crash with our Android app. This happened after we had created, tested, and deployed the new feature.

Because we work at New Relic, we also use New Relic One to analyze and troubleshoot our mobile apps. To give you an idea of how to explore the power of mobile monitoring, here's an example of how our own mobile engineers used it to track this small bug.

![Crash analysis workflow with mobile monitoring](./images/crash-analysis-workflow.jpg "Crash analysis workflow with mobile monitoring")

<figcaption>
  A workflow to identify and resolve mobile app crashes using New Relic.
</figcaption>

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="alert"
    title="1. Alert notification shows new version crashes"
  >
    The night after a new release, our on-call developer received an [alert notification on his mobile phone](/docs/mobile-apps/new-relic-mobile-apps/authentication-alerts/alerting-new-relic-mobile-apps). The [**Alerts** page](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile/getting-started/alert-information-new-relic-mobile) indicated that some customers were seeing crashes on the new version of our Android app.

    Moving to his desktop browser, he checked the [**Summary** page](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/mobile-app-pages/mobile-apps-overview-page). The overview showed an increase in crashes for the newest version. By filtering for the latest version and setting the [time picker](/docs/using-new-relic/user-interface-functions/view-your-data/time-picker-set-time-periods-view-data) to the past 24 hours, he could proceed with crash analysis.

    ![New Relic One: Mobile summary](./images/mobile-nrOne-summary072820.png "New Relic One: Mobile summary")

    <figcaption>
      An example of using the mobile **Summary** page to filter to an Android version with crashes.
    </figcaption>
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="crash-analysis"
    title="2. Crash analysis pinpoints exception, location, and more"
  >
    By clicking the **Crashes** chart title on the mobile **Summary** page, the [**Crash analysis** page](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/crashes/crash-analysis-group-filter-your-crashes) opened with the same 24-hour time frame and filter to this Android version. Here our developer could see a significant number of crashes for the selected version. This reinforced his suspicion there was bad code somewhere in the recent deployment.

    The developer clicked the link for the crash type to examine the exception, location, and error message. He also examined the stack trace, interaction trail, and event trail to quickly understand where users were impacted.

    ![New Relic One: Mobile crash analysis](./images/mobile-nrOne-crash.png "New Relic One: Mobile crash analysis")

    <figcaption>
      An example of using the **Crash analysis** page to track down the cause for crashes for a new release by examining the exception, location, and error message.
    </figcaption>

    From here the developer saw the error. The new feature had a specific line of bad code that was crashing the app for customers who only used New Relic to monitor one app rather than multiple apps. The team released a hot fix in less than an hour, and the crash rate quickly de-escalated to 0.2%.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="more-resources"
    title="3. Problem solved, focus on improving app performance"
  >
    The problem was solved, but the team continues to use New Relic to make sure the most important workflows are running correctly and quickly. We also share HTTP and other network performance trends with our backend API developer teams.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Improve frontend and backend performance [#backend]

More than a tool for crash analysis, our mobile monitoring capabilities can help you identify opportunities to speed app performance. For example, you can:

* Create [dashboards](/docs/dashboards/new-relic-one-dashboards/get-started/introduction-new-relic-one-dashboards) to query, visualize, and share performance data.
* Identify [handled exceptions](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/crashes/introduction-mobile-handled-exceptions) to streamline workflows.
* See trends with sessions, devices, geographical locations, operating systems, carriers, requests and responses, etc. with [crash profiles](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/crashes/crash-analysis-group-filter-your-crashes) and [HTTP profiles](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/network-pages/mobile-http-error-profiles-find-error-causes).
* Set up [alert notifications](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile/getting-started/alert-information-new-relic-mobile) for execution time, errors, etc.
* Define [custom attributes and events](/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/custom-events/insert-custom-events-attributes-mobile-data) to obtain additional, specific details about the mobile data that matters the most to your organization.

And more!

![Do more with New Relic Mobile](./images/next-steps_2.jpg "Do more with New Relic Mobile")

<figcaption>
  In addition to crash analysis, do more to fine-tune mobile app performance.
</figcaption>

Great mobile apps increasingly rely on backend systems to power their functionality, such as requesting product information, authenticating users, or streaming media content. But some backend issues can lead to upstream mobile app crashes, freezes, and broken functionality that impacts end users, including:

* Changed or non-versioned API endpoints
* Bad payloads
* API timeouts
* Slow or deprecated API endpoints

You can use the [network pages](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/network-pages) in our mobile monitoring UI to identify problems that surface through HTTP requests, errors, and other network issues. You can also [query your data](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data). Then create dashboards and share this information with backend API developer teams and others in your organization to help improve the overall end user experience with your mobile app.

You can also improve your customers' overall digital experience:

* Get rapid visibility into how your end users experience your mobile apps and [web browsers](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-browser).
* Analyze [actual](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-browser) or [simulated](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-synthetics) end-user behavior to hone in on metrics like load time, availability, and errors, while staying grounded in the backend services that enable these digital experiences.

## Get started with mobile monitoring [#new_users]

Before you install and configure New Relic's functionality for your mobile applications, follow these guidelines for compatibility and other requirements:

* [Android compatibility and requirements](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/new-relic-android-compatibility-requirements)
* [iOS compatibility and requirements](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/get-started/new-relic-ios-compatibility-requirements)

Then continue with the installation and configuration procedures for your [Android](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/android-installation-configuration), [iOS](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/get-started/ios-installation-configuration), [tvOS](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/tvos/tvos-installation-configuration), or [Cordova](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-cordova-phonegap/get-started/introduction-new-relic-cordova) application.
