src/content/docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/enable-lambda-monitoring/configure-serverless-monitoring-aws-lambda.mdx, before:

---
title: "Step 5: Additional configuration"
metaDescription: After enabling New Relic's AWS Lambda monitoring, you can set up alerts and custom events.
redirects:
  - /docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/get-started/configure-new-relic-serverless-aws-lambda
  - /docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/get-started/configure-monitoring-aws-lambda-new-relic-serverless
  - /docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/get-started/configure-serverless-monitoring-aws-lambda
---

After you [enable serverless monitoring for AWS Lambda](/docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/enable-lambda-monitoring/enable-aws-lambda-monitoring), you can add additional configuration to fine-tune your data.

## Set up alerts [#alerts]

Our alerts let you get notifications on anything you can monitor with New Relic, including APM metrics, key transactions, NRQL queries, and more.

For details about setting up alerts on Lambda functions, see [monitoring for AWS Lambda: Configuring alerts](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/relic-solution-new-relic-monitoring-for-aws-lambda-configuring-alerts/96045)

## Add custom events [#custom-events]

Besides the data we provide by default, you can also set up your own [events](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#event) or [attributes](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#attribute).

For details about these language-specific settings, see [Configuring custom attributes and events in AWS Lambda](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/configuring-custom-attributes-and-events-in-aws-lambda/96043).

Commit message:

feat(Infinite Tracing): add infinite tracing support text in browser, mobile, lambda

src/content/docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/enable-lambda-monitoring/configure-serverless-monitoring-aws-lambda.mdx, after:

---
title: "Step 5: Additional configuration"
metaDescription: After enabling New Relic's AWS Lambda monitoring, you can set up alerts and custom events.
redirects:
  - /docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/get-started/configure-new-relic-serverless-aws-lambda
  - /docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/get-started/configure-monitoring-aws-lambda-new-relic-serverless
  - /docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/get-started/configure-serverless-monitoring-aws-lambda
---

After you [enable serverless monitoring for AWS Lambda](/docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/enable-lambda-monitoring/enable-aws-lambda-monitoring), you can add additional configuration to fine-tune your data.

## Infinite Tracing [#infinite-tracing]

Distributed tracing is included by default if you set up your functions using Lambda layers.

If your Lambda functions have some downstream services that use the advanced type of distributed called Infinite Tracing, you should enable Infinite Tracing for your Lambda functions. This ensures that your root span (the initiating Lambda function) is included in the rest of the spans tracked by Infinite Tracing.

Infinite Tracing uses a trace observer in the cloud to collect all your trace spans. The trace observer uses [tail-based sampling](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/distributed-tracing/concepts/how-new-relic-distributed-tracing-works/#tail-based), which means it waits until all your spans arrive before assembling them into traces and making decisions about which traces are important. 

To set up Infinite Tracing for your Lambda functions, go to our [Infinite Tracing](/docs/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/set-trace-observer) documentation for steps to create a trace observer and to select which Lambda functions (data sources) should send trace spans to New Relic.

## Set up alerts [#alerts]

Our alerts let you get notifications on anything you can monitor with New Relic, including APM metrics, key transactions, NRQL queries, and more.

For details about setting up alerts on Lambda functions, see [monitoring for AWS Lambda: Configuring alerts](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/relic-solution-new-relic-monitoring-for-aws-lambda-configuring-alerts/96045)

## Add custom events [#custom-events]

Besides the data we provide by default, you can also set up your own [events](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#event) or [attributes](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#attribute).

For details about these language-specific settings, see [Configuring custom attributes and events in AWS Lambda](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/configuring-custom-attributes-and-events-in-aws-lambda/96043).
