src/content/docs/cci/azure-cci.mdx, before:

---
title: Cloud Cost Intelligence - Azure
tags:
  - cloud cost intelligence
  - azure
  - azure cost management
  - cloud cost optimization
  - cci azure
metaDescription: Connect your Azure billing to New Relic Cloud Cost Intelligence to monitor, analyze, and optimize cloud spending across Azure services.
redirect:
  - /docs/cci/financial-intelligence/cci-azure
freshnessValidatedDate: 2025-10-15
---

<Callout title="preview">
  We're still working on this feature, but we'd love for you to try it out!

  This feature is currently provided as part of a preview program pursuant to our [pre-release policies](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/new-relic-pre-release-policy).
</Callout>

Connect your Azure billing to Cloud Cost Intelligence for complete cost monitoring and optimization of your Azure infrastructure. Get real-time visibility into spending patterns, resource use, and cost allocation across services and resource groups. With the Cloud Cost Intelligence for Azure, you can:

  - **Optimize resource usage** - Find underutilized or costly Azure services and VMs to adjust allocations across subscriptions and resource groups
  - **Control expenses** - See specific cost drivers in your Azure environment, including compute, storage, networking, and database services for better financial decisions
  - **Enhance efficiency** - Focus on resource management strategies that align with business objectives for efficient use of Azure resources and budget
  - **Monitor multi-subscription costs** - Track spending across multiple Azure subscriptions and management groups from one dashboard
  - **Enable cost accountability** - Implement department-level cost allocation and chargeback using Azure tags and resource group organization
  - **Manage budgets proactively** - Set up alerts for Azure spending thresholds and budget limits to prevent overruns and maintain financial control

## Prerequisites

Before you connect Azure to Cloud Cost Intelligence, make sure you have:
  - An **Azure subscription** with an active billing account.
  - **Contributor or Owner role** on the subscription you want to monitor.
  - **Access to Azure Cost Management** features.
  - **Billing reader permissions** for the subscription or management group.
  - **Completed Azure billing export configuration**: This establishes the storage account, container, and directory path necessary for the connection process. See [Azure billing export configuration](#azure-billing-export-setup) for more details.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="azure-billing-export-setup"
    title="Azure billing export configuration"
  >
    Determine whether a billing export already exists that matches the parameters specified below:
      - **If a matching export exists**: Proceed with your setup process using the existing export.
      - **If no matching export exists**: Follow the steps below to create a new billing export.

      1. Access Azure Cost Management

          1. Navigate to the **Azure Console > Cost Management & Billing > Billing Scope**.
          2. Expand the **Settings** section and click **Exports**.

      2. Create new export

          1. Click **Create**.
          2. Select **Cost and Usage (FOCUS)** as the export type.
          3. Provide an export prefix for identification purposes.

      3. Configure export parameters

          Configure the export with the following parameters:

            <table>
              <thead>
                <tr>
                  <th width={200}>Parameter</th>
                  <th width={200}>Value</th>
                  <th>Description</th>
                </tr>
              </thead>
              <tbody>
                <tr>
                  <td>Type of Data</td>
                  <td>Cost and Usage details (FOCUS) - Preview</td>
                  <td>Provides detailed cost and usage information in FOCUS format</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Export Name</td>
                  <td>A descriptive name of your choice</td>
                  <td>Meaningful identifier for your export</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Dataset Version</td>
                  <td>1.2-preview (Latest dataset schema files)</td>
                  <td>Latest schema version available</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Frequency</td>
                  <td>Daily export of month-to-date costs</td>
                  <td>Daily exports capture month-to-date cost information</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Export Description</td>
                  <td>A meaningful description of your choice</td>
                  <td>Context about the export purpose</td>
                </tr>
              </tbody>
            </table>

      4. Configure storage settings

          After configuring the export parameters, click **Next** to proceed to storage configuration.

          Configure the storage settings with the following specifications:

            <table>
              <thead>
                <tr>
                  <th width={200}>Setting</th>
                  <th width={200}>Value</th>
                  <th>Description</th>
                </tr>
              </thead>
              <tbody>
                <tr>
                  <td>Storage Type</td>
                  <td>Blob Storage</td>
                  <td>Azure Blob Storage for cost data</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Destination Storage</td>
                  <td>Use existing storage account or create a new one</td>
                  <td>Storage location for billing data</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Container and Directory</td>
                  <td>Use existing container/directory or create new</td>
                  <td>Organization structure for billing exports</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Compression Type</td>
                  <td>Parquet</td>
                  <td>Provides optimal storage efficiency and query performance</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Data Overwrite</td>
                  <td>Yes</td>
                  <td>Allows updates to existing data</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>File Partitioning</td>
                  <td>Yes</td>
                  <td>Enables efficient data organization and retrieval</td>
                </tr>
              </tbody>
            </table>

            <Callout variant="important">
              We recommend the storage account to be based in **(US) East US**. This helps save on outbound data transfer costs. The storage type should be **Azure Blob storage**.
            </Callout>

      5. Finalize configuration

          1. Review all configured settings.
          2. Click **Create** to finalize the billing export configuration.
          3. Verify that the export appears in your **Exports** list.

            <Callout variant="tip">
              - The FOCUS (FinOps Open Cost and Usage Specification) format is currently in preview
              - Dataset version 1.2-preview represents the latest schema version available
              - Daily exports are capturing month-to-date cost information
              - Parquet compression provides optimal storage efficiency and query performance
            </Callout>
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Connect Azure to Cloud Cost Intelligence

<Steps>
  <Step>
     ### Select your account

      Now that you've completed the Azure billing export setup, you're ready to connect your Azure billing to New Relic. Start by choosing your New Relic account.

      1. Go to <DNT>[**one.newrelic.com**](https://one.newrelic.com) > **All Capabilities** > **Cloud Cost Intelligence - Azure**</DNT>.
      2. Select your account from the dropdown and click **Continue**.
  </Step>
  <Step>
     ### Connect your Azure billing account

      Now you'll provide the connection details that link your Azure billing data to New Relic. You'll need information from both your Azure billing account and the storage location where your billing exports are saved.

      1. Enter the following Azure billing information:

      <table>
        <thead>
          <tr>
            <th width={220}>Field</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Location</th>
          </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <tr>
            <td>**Azure Agreement Type**</td>
            <td>
              Select your agreement type from the dropdown.
            </td>
            <td>
              Navigate to **Azure Console > Cost Management + Billing > Settings > Properties**. For more information, see [Billing accounts and scopes in the Azure portal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cost-management-billing/manage/view-all-accounts).
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>**Tenant ID**</td>
            <td>
              Enter the unique identifier for your organization's Microsoft Entra ID instance.
            </td>
            <td>
              Go to **[Microsoft Entra Admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com/#home)**
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>**Billing account ID**</td>
            <td>
              Enter your Azure billing account ID.
            </td>
            <td>
              Navigate to **Azure Console > Cost Management + Billing > Settings > Properties**. For more information, see [Billing administration](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cost-management-billing/manage/direct-ea-administration#to-view-enrollment-properties).
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>**Azure Storage account name**</td>
            <td>
              Enter the name of the storage account used for your billing export, created during setup. To reduce outbound data transfer costs, use a storage account in **East US (US)**. The storage type must be **Azure Blob storage**.
            </td>
            <td>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>**Storage Container Name**</td>
            <td>
              Enter the container name within your storage account that holds the billing export files.
            </td>
            <td>
              Go to **[Microsoft Azure](https://portal.azure.com/#home) > Subscription > Storage account > Container**
              **Note**: You must grant access to the New Relic service principal in the next step for this container.
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>**Directory Path**</td>
            <td>
              Enter the base path where billing data is stored within the container (for example, `20251001-20251031` for October 2025).
              **Note**: If your billing export publishes directly to the root of the container, leave this field empty.
            </td>
            <td>
            </td>
          </tr>
        </tbody>
      </table>

      2. After entering all the required information, click **Continue** to proceed to the next step.
  </Step>
  <Step>
     ### Grant New Relic access to your billing data

      Now that you've provided your Azure connection details, New Relic needs permission to read the billing data from your storage container. This step authorizes the New Relic service principal (**msazurecostdata**) to access your billing exports securely.

        1. Click the **Initiate Connection** button in the New Relic interface.
        2. You'll be redirected to the **Microsoft Authentication** flow.
        <Callout variant="tip">
          Azure administrator approval is required for this step.
        </Callout>
        3. Review and accept the authentication request.
        4. A small file (0 KB) will download to your system upon acceptance. You can safely delete this file.
  </Step>
  <Step>
     ### Verify the service principal was added

      After accepting the authentication request, confirm that the New Relic service principal was successfully added to your Azure environment:

        1. Navigate to **Enterprise Applications** in your **Microsoft Entra Account**.
        2. Verify that the service principal **msazurecostdata** appears in the list.

        <Callout variant="tip">
          For help viewing enterprise applications, see the [Microsoft Entra documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/enterprise-apps/view-applications-portal).
        </Callout>
  </Step>
  <Step>
     ### Assign read permissions to the service principal

        Assign the** Storage Blob Data Reader** role to the service principal for read-only access to billing exports, ensuring access to the storage account and permissions to modify IAM role assignments:

            1. Open the storage account container where your billing exports are published. Select **Access Control (IAM)** from the left navigation menu.
            2. Under the **Role Assignments** tab, click **Add** or **Add role assignment**.
            3. Select **Storage Blob Data Reader** from the role list to provide read-only access to the billing exports.
            4. In the **Add Members** section, search for `msazurecostdata` (verified service principal), and select it.
            5. Review the role assignment configuration. Click **Review + Assign**, and verify that `msazurecostdata` appears in the role assignments list.
  </Step>
  <Step>
    ### Verify the connection

        After completing all the steps above, confirm that:
        - Service principal **msazurecostdata** is visible in Enterprise Applications
        - Service principal has the **Storage Blob Data Reader** role assigned
        - Role assignment is applied to the correct storage account container
        - Connection test completes successfully in the New Relic interface

        <Callout variant="tip">
          **Security note**: The service principal only has read-only access to your billing data. It cannot write, modify, or delete any data. Access is limited exclusively to the billing export container you specified.
        </Callout>
  </Step>
  <Step>
     ### What's next
      - New Relic will start processing your Azure billing exports
      - Initial data processing can take up to 12 hours
      - Once processing completes, you'll see your cost data in the Cost Overview dashboard

      <Callout variant="important">
        Processing your data for the first time can take up to 12 hours.
      </Callout>
  </Step>
  <Step>
     ### View your data
      Once processing is complete, go to [**Cost Overview**](/docs/cci/financial-intelligence/cloud-cost-insights) to view your Azure cost data and start optimizing your cloud spending.
  </Step>
</Steps>

Commit message:

Updated a callout for EA and MCA the format should be Cost and usage details (FOCUS) : 1.2-preview..

src/content/docs/cci/azure-cci.mdx, after:

---
title: Cloud Cost Intelligence - Azure
tags:
  - cloud cost intelligence
  - azure
  - azure cost management
  - cloud cost optimization
  - cci azure
metaDescription: Connect your Azure billing to New Relic Cloud Cost Intelligence to monitor, analyze, and optimize cloud spending across Azure services.
redirect:
  - /docs/cci/financial-intelligence/cci-azure
freshnessValidatedDate: 2025-10-15
---

<Callout title="preview">
  We're still working on this feature, but we'd love for you to try it out!

  This feature is currently provided as part of a preview program pursuant to our [pre-release policies](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/new-relic-pre-release-policy).
</Callout>

Connect your Azure billing to Cloud Cost Intelligence for complete cost monitoring and optimization of your Azure infrastructure. Get real-time visibility into spending patterns, resource use, and cost allocation across services and resource groups. With the Cloud Cost Intelligence for Azure, you can:

  - **Optimize resource usage** - Find underutilized or costly Azure services and VMs to adjust allocations across subscriptions and resource groups
  - **Control expenses** - See specific cost drivers in your Azure environment, including compute, storage, networking, and database services for better financial decisions
  - **Enhance efficiency** - Focus on resource management strategies that align with business objectives for efficient use of Azure resources and budget
  - **Monitor multi-subscription costs** - Track spending across multiple Azure subscriptions and management groups from one dashboard
  - **Enable cost accountability** - Implement department-level cost allocation and chargeback using Azure tags and resource group organization
  - **Manage budgets proactively** - Set up alerts for Azure spending thresholds and budget limits to prevent overruns and maintain financial control

## Prerequisites

Before you connect Azure to Cloud Cost Intelligence, make sure you have:
  - An **Azure subscription** with an active billing account.
  - **Contributor or Owner role** on the subscription you want to monitor.
  - **Access to Azure Cost Management** features.
  - **Billing reader permissions** for the subscription or management group.
  - **Completed Azure billing export configuration**: This establishes the storage account, container, and directory path necessary for the connection process. See [Azure billing export configuration](#azure-billing-export-setup) for more details.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="azure-billing-export-setup"
    title="Azure billing export configuration"
  >
    Determine whether a billing export already exists that matches the parameters specified below:
      - **If a matching export exists**: Proceed with your setup process using the existing export.
      - **If no matching export exists**: Follow the steps below to create a new billing export.

      1. Access Azure Cost Management

          1. Navigate to the **Azure Console > Cost Management & Billing > Billing Scope**.
          2. Expand the **Settings** section and click **Exports**.

      2. Create new export

          1. Click **Create**.
          2. Select **Cost and Usage (FOCUS)** as the export type.

            <Callout variant="important">
              For EA and MCA the export type format should be **Cost and usage details (FOCUS) : 1.2-preview..**
            </Callout>
          3. Provide an export prefix for identification purposes.

      3. Configure export parameters

          Configure the export with the following parameters:

            <table>
              <thead>
                <tr>
                  <th width={200}>Parameter</th>
                  <th width={200}>Value</th>
                  <th>Description</th>
                </tr>
              </thead>
              <tbody>
                <tr>
                  <td>Type of Data</td>
                  <td>Cost and Usage details (FOCUS) - Preview</td>
                  <td>Provides detailed cost and usage information in FOCUS format</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Export Name</td>
                  <td>A descriptive name of your choice</td>
                  <td>Meaningful identifier for your export</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Dataset Version</td>
                  <td>1.2-preview (Latest dataset schema files)</td>
                  <td>Latest schema version available</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Frequency</td>
                  <td>Daily export of month-to-date costs</td>
                  <td>Daily exports capture month-to-date cost information</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Export Description</td>
                  <td>A meaningful description of your choice</td>
                  <td>Context about the export purpose</td>
                </tr>
              </tbody>
            </table>

      4. Configure storage settings

          After configuring the export parameters, click **Next** to proceed to storage configuration.

          Configure the storage settings with the following specifications:

            <table>
              <thead>
                <tr>
                  <th width={200}>Setting</th>
                  <th width={200}>Value</th>
                  <th>Description</th>
                </tr>
              </thead>
              <tbody>
                <tr>
                  <td>Storage Type</td>
                  <td>Blob Storage</td>
                  <td>Azure Blob Storage for cost data</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Destination Storage</td>
                  <td>Use existing storage account or create a new one</td>
                  <td>Storage location for billing data</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Container and Directory</td>
                  <td>Use existing container/directory or create new</td>
                  <td>Organization structure for billing exports</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Compression Type</td>
                  <td>Parquet</td>
                  <td>Provides optimal storage efficiency and query performance</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>Data Overwrite</td>
                  <td>Yes</td>
                  <td>Allows updates to existing data</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                  <td>File Partitioning</td>
                  <td>Yes</td>
                  <td>Enables efficient data organization and retrieval</td>
                </tr>
              </tbody>
            </table>

            <Callout variant="important">
              We recommend the storage account to be based in **(US) East US**. This helps save on outbound data transfer costs. The storage type should be **Azure Blob storage**.
            </Callout>

      5. Finalize configuration

          1. Review all configured settings.
          2. Click **Create** to finalize the billing export configuration.
          3. Verify that the export appears in your **Exports** list.

            <Callout variant="tip">
              - The FOCUS (FinOps Open Cost and Usage Specification) format is currently in preview
              - Dataset version 1.2-preview represents the latest schema version available
              - Daily exports are capturing month-to-date cost information
              - Parquet compression provides optimal storage efficiency and query performance
            </Callout>
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Connect Azure to Cloud Cost Intelligence

<Steps>
  <Step>
     ### Select your account

      Now that you've completed the Azure billing export setup, you're ready to connect your Azure billing to New Relic. Start by choosing your New Relic account.

      1. Go to <DNT>[**one.newrelic.com**](https://one.newrelic.com) > **All Capabilities** > **Cloud Cost Intelligence - Azure**</DNT>.
      2. Select your account from the dropdown and click **Continue**.
  </Step>
  <Step>
     ### Connect your Azure billing account

      Now you'll provide the connection details that link your Azure billing data to New Relic. You'll need information from both your Azure billing account and the storage location where your billing exports are saved.

      1. Enter the following Azure billing information:

      <table>
        <thead>
          <tr>
            <th width={220}>Field</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Location</th>
          </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <tr>
            <td>**Azure Agreement Type**</td>
            <td>
              Select your agreement type from the dropdown.
            </td>
            <td>
              Navigate to **Azure Console > Cost Management + Billing > Settings > Properties**. For more information, see [Billing accounts and scopes in the Azure portal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cost-management-billing/manage/view-all-accounts).
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>**Tenant ID**</td>
            <td>
              Enter the unique identifier for your organization's Microsoft Entra ID instance.
            </td>
            <td>
              Go to **[Microsoft Entra Admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com/#home)**
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>**Billing account ID**</td>
            <td>
              Enter your Azure billing account ID.
            </td>
            <td>
              Navigate to **Azure Console > Cost Management + Billing > Settings > Properties**. For more information, see [Billing administration](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cost-management-billing/manage/direct-ea-administration#to-view-enrollment-properties).
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>**Azure Storage account name**</td>
            <td>
              Enter the name of the storage account used for your billing export, created during setup. To reduce outbound data transfer costs, use a storage account in **East US (US)**. The storage type must be **Azure Blob storage**.
            </td>
            <td>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>**Storage Container Name**</td>
            <td>
              Enter the container name within your storage account that holds the billing export files.
            </td>
            <td>
              Go to **[Microsoft Azure](https://portal.azure.com/#home) > Subscription > Storage account > Container**
              **Note**: You must grant access to the New Relic service principal in the next step for this container.
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>**Directory Path**</td>
            <td>
              Enter the base path where billing data is stored within the container (for example, `20251001-20251031` for October 2025).
              **Note**: If your billing export publishes directly to the root of the container, leave this field empty.
            </td>
            <td>
            </td>
          </tr>
        </tbody>
      </table>

      2. After entering all the required information, click **Continue** to proceed to the next step.
  </Step>
  <Step>
     ### Grant New Relic access to your billing data

      Now that you've provided your Azure connection details, New Relic needs permission to read the billing data from your storage container. This step authorizes the New Relic service principal (**msazurecostdata**) to access your billing exports securely.

        1. Click the **Initiate Connection** button in the New Relic interface.
        2. You'll be redirected to the **Microsoft Authentication** flow.
        <Callout variant="tip">
          Azure administrator approval is required for this step.
        </Callout>
        3. Review and accept the authentication request.
        4. A small file (0 KB) will download to your system upon acceptance. You can safely delete this file.
  </Step>
  <Step>
     ### Verify the service principal was added

      After accepting the authentication request, confirm that the New Relic service principal was successfully added to your Azure environment:

        1. Navigate to **Enterprise Applications** in your **Microsoft Entra Account**.
        2. Verify that the service principal **msazurecostdata** appears in the list.

        <Callout variant="tip">
          For help viewing enterprise applications, see the [Microsoft Entra documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/enterprise-apps/view-applications-portal).
        </Callout>
  </Step>
  <Step>
     ### Assign read permissions to the service principal

        Assign the** Storage Blob Data Reader** role to the service principal for read-only access to billing exports, ensuring access to the storage account and permissions to modify IAM role assignments:

            1. Open the storage account container where your billing exports are published. Select **Access Control (IAM)** from the left navigation menu.
            2. Under the **Role Assignments** tab, click **Add** or **Add role assignment**.
            3. Select **Storage Blob Data Reader** from the role list to provide read-only access to the billing exports.
            4. In the **Add Members** section, search for `msazurecostdata` (verified service principal), and select it.
            5. Review the role assignment configuration. Click **Review + Assign**, and verify that `msazurecostdata` appears in the role assignments list.
  </Step>
  <Step>
    ### Verify the connection

        After completing all the steps above, confirm that:
        - Service principal **msazurecostdata** is visible in Enterprise Applications
        - Service principal has the **Storage Blob Data Reader** role assigned
        - Role assignment is applied to the correct storage account container
        - Connection test completes successfully in the New Relic interface

        <Callout variant="tip">
          **Security note**: The service principal only has read-only access to your billing data. It cannot write, modify, or delete any data. Access is limited exclusively to the billing export container you specified.
        </Callout>
  </Step>
  <Step>
     ### What's next
      - New Relic will start processing your Azure billing exports
      - Initial data processing can take up to 12 hours
      - Once processing completes, you'll see your cost data in the Cost Overview dashboard

      <Callout variant="important">
        Processing your data for the first time can take up to 12 hours.
      </Callout>
  </Step>
  <Step>
     ### View your data
      Once processing is complete, go to [**Cost Overview**](/docs/cci/financial-intelligence/cloud-cost-insights) to view your Azure cost data and start optimizing your cloud spending.
  </Step>
</Steps>
