src/content/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/browser-pro-features/browser-data-distributed-tracing.mdx, before:

---
title: Browser data in distributed tracing
metaDescription: 'Browser: How to enable browser-side (end-user) data in distributed tracing feature.'
redirects:
  - /node/36696
  - /node/38231
  - /docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/ui-data/browser-data
  - /docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/enable-configure/new-relic-browser
  - /docs/distributed-tracing/enable-configure/new-relic-browser
  - /docs/distributed-tracing/ui-data/browser-data/
---

If you use browser to monitor end-user browser activity, you can now see end-user-originating browser-side traces in [distributed tracing](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/get-started/introduction-distributed-tracing). This document contains:

* [Benefits of this feature](#benefits)
* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Enable distributed tracing](#enable)
* [Enable cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)](#cors)
* [Find and query data](#find-data)
* [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

<Callout variant="tip">
  Browser data is available in standard distributed tracing only, not Infinite Tracing.
</Callout>

## Benefits of browser data in distributed tracing [#benefits]

By enabling New Relic to report browser data to [distributed tracing](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/get-started/introduction-distributed-tracing), you can see the connection between front-end activity and back-end activity. You can see across a full transaction, from time spent by an end user in the web browser, to network activity, to associated back-end services.

Benefits of this feature:

* Quickly spot latencies, errors, and anomalies in the browser or network
* Resolve customer-facing problems more quickly
* All the [benefits of distributed tracing](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/get-started/introduction-distributed-tracing) applied to your end-user monitoring

## Requirements and compatibility [#requirements]

This feature reports AJAX requests (Fetch and XHR) that occur during a [browser interaction](/docs/browser/single-page-app-monitoring/use-spa-data/spa-data-collection#browser-interaction). By default, only single-origin requests are monitored unless [cross-origin resource sharing](#cors) is enabled.

Make sure you have the necessary minimum versions for your browser and APM agents:

* [Browser Pro+SPA agent](/docs/browser/browser-monitoring/installation/install-browser-monitoring-agent#agent-types) with [distributed tracing enabled](#enable): 

  * [Browser agent version 1153](/docs/release-notes/new-relic-browser-release-notes/browser-agent-release-notes/browser-agent-v1153) or higher
  * [Browser agent version 1158](/docs/release-notes/new-relic-browser-release-notes/browser-agent-release-notes/browser-agent-v1158) or higher (required for [cross-origin resource sharing](#cors))
  * [Browser agent version 1173](/docs/release-notes/new-relic-browser-release-notes/browser-agent-release-notes/browser-agent-v1173) or higher (required for [w3c trace context](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/) support)
* APM agent versions:

  * [C SDK 1.3](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/c-sdk-release-notes) or higher
  * [Java 5.9.0](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/java-release-notes/java-agent-590) or higher
  * [PHP](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/php-release-notes/php-agent-940249) 9.4.0 or higher
  * [Other APM agent version requirements](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/enable-configure/enable-distributed-tracing#compatibility-requirements)

## Enable distributed tracing [#enable]

To enable distributed tracing for browser monitoring:

1. Make sure you meet [requirements](#requirements).
2. Go to [one.newrelic.com](http://one.newrelic.com), and click **Browser**, then select an app, then on the left side, click **Application settings**.
3. Ensure the **Distributed tracing** toggle is on. By default, for agent version 1173 and above, the `newrelic`, `traceparent`, and `tracestate` headers will be added to all same-origin AJAX requests.
4. Optional: If all of your services are configured to use the w3c trace context headers, you can choose to exclude the `newrelic`, `traceparent`, and `tracestate` headers from requests.
5. Optional: [Enable cross-origin resource sharing](#cors).
6. [Redeploy the browser monitoring agent](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/installation/upgrade-browser-agent) (either restarting the associated APM agent or updating the copy/paste browser installation).

## Enable cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) [#cors]

If you have AJAX requests that need resources from different origins, you can enable cross-origin resource sharing (CORS). By default, distributed tracing for cross-origin requests is not enabled because of browser CORS security restrictions: Distributed tracing is implemented by adding a custom HTTP headers (`newrelic`, `traceparent`, and `tracestate`) to outgoing AJAX requests, and browsers typically do not allow custom headers on cross-origin requests.

With the release of agent version 1173, we now support the w3c trace context headers (`traceparent` and `tracestate`) so these should also be allowed in your configuration.

There are two separate configurations required to enable cross-origin distributed tracing:

1. Configure the service on the different origin to accept the `newrelic` custom header
2. Configure browser monitoring to include the target origin in distributed tracing

Our [step-by-step instructions](#cors-configure) provide key concepts and steps to enable this feature, but if you need more background about how cross-origin resource sharing works, we recommend this [Mozilla developer document](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS).

### Risks and mitigations [#mitigation]

<Callout variant="caution">
  Cross-origin resource sharing can expose you to a high level of risk if the services on the different origins are not configured correctly. The AJAX requests will likely return an error, resulting in a variety of failures, including:

  * Resources failing to load (for example, images and key content)
  * Login failures
  * Entire site outages (depending on type of requests enabled)

  By enabling this cross-origin resource sharing feature, you are acknowledging the following:

  * You understand that this feature is optional and not mandatory.
  * You understand the steps you need to take in order to enable this feature for your services and your domains.
  * You understand that if you do not properly configure your services prior to deployment (including but not limited to configuring your services on your domains to accept custom headers) portions or all of your website will likely malfunction.
  * You understand that New Relic is neither responsible nor liable for errors or issues related to your misconfiguration of servers or services.
  * You fully and solely accept the risks and wish to proceed.
</Callout>

The best way to minimize your risk is to ensure you fully understand the process and to try it first in a test environment. Before reading the [step-by-step instructions](#cors-configure), it may help to first read this overview of the process:

To use distributed tracing with cross-origin resources, you populate a list of approved cross-origin resources in New Relic, and then we automatically send the following custom headers to those resources: `newrelic`, `traceparent`, and `tracestate`. For this process to work, you must first ensure that someone has configured the services on the other origins to accept this custom header.

Cross-origin resource sharing uses a variety of HTTP headers (both in the request and response). The header that specifically applies to New Relic is the `Access-Control-Allow-Headers` response header, which can include `newrelic`, `traceparent, tracestate`, or `newrelic, traceparent, tracestate` in its value depending on what tracing strategies you enabled in your APM-monitored application. You must configure your server to return this CORS header in its response. Example:

`Access-Control-Allow-Headers: newrelic, traceparent, tracestate`

<Callout variant="important">
  New Relic cannot perform any validation to ensure the services on the other origins were configured correctly. If you're unsure about how to allow these headers, do **not** add cross-origin resources to the approved list in the New Relic UI.
</Callout>

### Enable cross-origin resource sharing [#cors-configure]

<Callout variant="caution">
  You should always try enabling CORS in a test environment before setting it up in production.
</Callout>

To enable cross-origin resource sharing:

1. Confirm that the services on the other origins are configured to accept the `newrelic` header using: `Access-Control-Allow-Headers: newrelic, traceparent, tracestate` (for details, see [Risks and mitigations](#mitigation)).
2. Confirm that you meet the [Browser monitoring requirements](#requirements).
3. Make sure you are in **[one.newrelic.com](http://one.newrelic.com), and click Browser > (select an app) > Application settings**.
4. Turn on the **Distributed tracing** toggle if it's not already enabled.
5. Turn on the **Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)** toggle.
6. Under **Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)**, add cross-origin resources to the approved list.

   <Callout variant="important">
     Valid cross-origin resources must include:

     * The prefix `http://` or `https://`
     * The domain name

     The port number is not required unless it differs from the default for HTTP (port 80) or HTTPS (port 443).
   </Callout>
7. Select **Save application settings** to update the agent configuration.
8. [Redeploy the browser agent](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/installation/upgrade-browser-agent) (either restarting the associated APM agent or updating the copy/paste browser installation).

## Find data

Tips for finding and querying data:

* You can find end-user-originating traces in any [New Relic One distributed tracing UI](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/ui-data/additional-distributed-tracing-features-new-relic-one).
* In the distributed tracing UI, end-user spans are indicated with the ![New Relic distributed tracing browser span icon](./images/distributed-tracing-browser-span-icon.png "distributed-tracing-browser-span-icon.png") icon.
* To see a span's attributes, select [a span in the UI](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-data#span-details).
* Spans are reported as [`Span` data](/attribute-dictionary/?event=Span), and can be [queried in New Relic](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data).
* Query tips:
  * Query by browser app name by setting `browserApp.name` to the browser app name.
  * Query for traces containing at least one browser app span with `browserApp.name is not null`.
  * Query for traces containing at least one back-end app with `appName is not null`.
  * Query for traces containing both browser and back-end spans by combining the two previous conditions.

## Troubleshooting

If you don't see end-user spans, or are having other distributed tracing issues, see [Troubleshooting](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-missing-trace-data#browser-data).

Commit message:

feat(Infinite Tracing): add infinite tracing support text in browser, mobile, lambda

src/content/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/browser-pro-features/browser-data-distributed-tracing.mdx, after:

---
title: Browser data in distributed tracing
metaDescription: 'Browser: How to enable browser-side (end-user) data in distributed tracing feature.'
redirects:
  - /node/36696
  - /node/38231
  - /docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/ui-data/browser-data
  - /docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/enable-configure/new-relic-browser
  - /docs/distributed-tracing/enable-configure/new-relic-browser
  - /docs/distributed-tracing/ui-data/browser-data/
---

If you use browser to monitor end-user browser activity, you can now see end-user-originating browser-side traces in [distributed tracing](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/get-started/introduction-distributed-tracing). This document contains:

* [Benefits of this feature](#benefits)
* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Enable distributed tracing](#enable)
* [Enable cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)](#cors)
* [Find and query data](#find-data)
* [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

<Callout variant="tip">
  Browser data is available in standard distributed tracing only, not Infinite Tracing.
</Callout>

## Benefits of browser data in distributed tracing [#benefits]

By enabling New Relic to report browser data to [distributed tracing](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/get-started/introduction-distributed-tracing), you can see the connection between front-end activity and back-end activity. You can see across a full transaction, from time spent by an end user in the web browser, to network activity, to associated back-end services.

Benefits of this feature:

* Quickly spot latencies, errors, and anomalies in the browser or network
* Resolve customer-facing problems more quickly
* All the [benefits of distributed tracing](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/get-started/introduction-distributed-tracing) applied to your end-user monitoring

## Requirements and compatibility [#requirements]

This feature reports AJAX requests (Fetch and XHR) that occur during a [browser interaction](/docs/browser/single-page-app-monitoring/use-spa-data/spa-data-collection#browser-interaction). By default, only single-origin requests are monitored unless [cross-origin resource sharing](#cors) is enabled.

Make sure you have the necessary minimum versions for your browser and APM agents:

* [Browser Pro+SPA agent](/docs/browser/browser-monitoring/installation/install-browser-monitoring-agent#agent-types) with [distributed tracing enabled](#enable): 

  * [Browser agent version 1153](/docs/release-notes/new-relic-browser-release-notes/browser-agent-release-notes/browser-agent-v1153) or higher
  * [Browser agent version 1158](/docs/release-notes/new-relic-browser-release-notes/browser-agent-release-notes/browser-agent-v1158) or higher (required for [cross-origin resource sharing](#cors))
  * [Browser agent version 1173](/docs/release-notes/new-relic-browser-release-notes/browser-agent-release-notes/browser-agent-v1173) or higher (required for [w3c trace context](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/) support)
* APM agent versions:

  * [C SDK 1.3](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/c-sdk-release-notes) or higher
  * [Java 5.9.0](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/java-release-notes/java-agent-590) or higher
  * [PHP](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/php-release-notes/php-agent-940249) 9.4.0 or higher
  * [Other APM agent version requirements](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/enable-configure/enable-distributed-tracing#compatibility-requirements)

## Enable distributed tracing [#enable]

To enable distributed tracing for browser monitoring:

1. Make sure you meet [requirements](#requirements).
2. Go to [one.newrelic.com](http://one.newrelic.com), and click **Browser**, then select an app, then on the left side, click **Application settings**.
3. Ensure the **Distributed tracing** toggle is on. By default, for agent version 1173 and above, the `newrelic`, `traceparent`, and `tracestate` headers will be added to all same-origin AJAX requests.
4. Optional: If all of your services are configured to use the w3c trace context headers, you can choose to exclude the `newrelic`, `traceparent`, and `tracestate` headers from requests.
5. Optional: [Enable cross-origin resource sharing](#cors).
6. [Redeploy the browser monitoring agent](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/installation/upgrade-browser-agent) (either restarting the associated APM agent or updating the copy/paste browser installation).
7. If you have some apps or services that are downstream from your browser app and use the advanced option Infinite Tracing, see the steps [below](#infinite-tracing).

## Enable Infinite Tracing [#infinite-tracing]

If your browser apps have some downstream services that use the advanced type of distributed called Infinite Tracing, you should enable Infinite Tracing for your browser apps. This ensures that your root span (the initiating browser app) is included in the rest of the spans tracked by Infinite Tracing.

Infinite Tracing uses a trace observer in the cloud to collect all your trace spans. The trace observer uses [tail-based sampling](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/distributed-tracing/concepts/how-new-relic-distributed-tracing-works/#tail-based), which means it waits until all your spans arrive before assembling them into traces and making decisions about which traces are important. 

Infinite Tracing is an advanced type of distributed tracing that uses [tail-based sampling](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/distributed-tracing/concepts/how-new-relic-distributed-tracing-works/#tail-based). Trace spans are sent to a central trace observer where all of them are all collected. After all your spans arrive, the trace observer assembles them into traces and them sorts through all of them, deciding which ones are useful. 

To set up Infinite Tracing:

1. Complete the steps [above](#standard-distributed-tracing) to enable standard distributed tracing.
2. Go to our [Infinite Tracing](/docs/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/set-trace-observer) documentation for steps to create a trace observer and to select which apps (data sources) should send trace spans to New Relic.

## Enable cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) [#cors]

If you have AJAX requests that need resources from different origins, you can enable cross-origin resource sharing (CORS). By default, distributed tracing for cross-origin requests is not enabled because of browser CORS security restrictions: Distributed tracing is implemented by adding a custom HTTP headers (`newrelic`, `traceparent`, and `tracestate`) to outgoing AJAX requests, and browsers typically do not allow custom headers on cross-origin requests.

With the release of agent version 1173, we now support the w3c trace context headers (`traceparent` and `tracestate`) so these should also be allowed in your configuration.

There are two separate configurations required to enable cross-origin distributed tracing:

1. Configure the service on the different origin to accept the `newrelic` custom header
2. Configure browser monitoring to include the target origin in distributed tracing

Our [step-by-step instructions](#cors-configure) provide key concepts and steps to enable this feature, but if you need more background about how cross-origin resource sharing works, we recommend this [Mozilla developer document](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS).

### Risks and mitigations [#mitigation]

<Callout variant="caution">
  Cross-origin resource sharing can expose you to a high level of risk if the services on the different origins are not configured correctly. The AJAX requests will likely return an error, resulting in a variety of failures, including:

  * Resources failing to load (for example, images and key content)
  * Login failures
  * Entire site outages (depending on type of requests enabled)

  By enabling this cross-origin resource sharing feature, you are acknowledging the following:

  * You understand that this feature is optional and not mandatory.
  * You understand the steps you need to take in order to enable this feature for your services and your domains.
  * You understand that if you do not properly configure your services prior to deployment (including but not limited to configuring your services on your domains to accept custom headers) portions or all of your website will likely malfunction.
  * You understand that New Relic is neither responsible nor liable for errors or issues related to your misconfiguration of servers or services.
  * You fully and solely accept the risks and wish to proceed.
</Callout>

The best way to minimize your risk is to ensure you fully understand the process and to try it first in a test environment. Before reading the [step-by-step instructions](#cors-configure), it may help to first read this overview of the process:

To use distributed tracing with cross-origin resources, you populate a list of approved cross-origin resources in New Relic, and then we automatically send the following custom headers to those resources: `newrelic`, `traceparent`, and `tracestate`. For this process to work, you must first ensure that someone has configured the services on the other origins to accept this custom header.

Cross-origin resource sharing uses a variety of HTTP headers (both in the request and response). The header that specifically applies to New Relic is the `Access-Control-Allow-Headers` response header, which can include `newrelic`, `traceparent, tracestate`, or `newrelic, traceparent, tracestate` in its value depending on what tracing strategies you enabled in your APM-monitored application. You must configure your server to return this CORS header in its response. Example:

`Access-Control-Allow-Headers: newrelic, traceparent, tracestate`

<Callout variant="important">
  New Relic cannot perform any validation to ensure the services on the other origins were configured correctly. If you're unsure about how to allow these headers, do **not** add cross-origin resources to the approved list in the New Relic UI.
</Callout>

### Enable cross-origin resource sharing [#cors-configure]

<Callout variant="caution">
  You should always try enabling CORS in a test environment before setting it up in production.
</Callout>

To enable cross-origin resource sharing:

1. Confirm that the services on the other origins are configured to accept the `newrelic` header using: `Access-Control-Allow-Headers: newrelic, traceparent, tracestate` (for details, see [Risks and mitigations](#mitigation)).
2. Confirm that you meet the [Browser monitoring requirements](#requirements).
3. Make sure you are in **[one.newrelic.com](http://one.newrelic.com), and click Browser > (select an app) > Application settings**.
4. Turn on the **Distributed tracing** toggle if it's not already enabled.
5. Turn on the **Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)** toggle.
6. Under **Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)**, add cross-origin resources to the approved list.

   <Callout variant="important">
     Valid cross-origin resources must include:

     * The prefix `http://` or `https://`
     * The domain name

     The port number is not required unless it differs from the default for HTTP (port 80) or HTTPS (port 443).
   </Callout>
7. Select **Save application settings** to update the agent configuration.
8. [Redeploy the browser agent](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/installation/upgrade-browser-agent) (either restarting the associated APM agent or updating the copy/paste browser installation).

## Find data

Tips for finding and querying data:

* You can find end-user-originating traces in any [New Relic One distributed tracing UI](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/ui-data/additional-distributed-tracing-features-new-relic-one).
* In the distributed tracing UI, end-user spans are indicated with the ![New Relic distributed tracing browser span icon](./images/distributed-tracing-browser-span-icon.png "distributed-tracing-browser-span-icon.png") icon.
* To see a span's attributes, select [a span in the UI](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-data#span-details).
* Spans are reported as [`Span` data](/attribute-dictionary/?event=Span), and can be [queried in New Relic](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data).
* Query tips:
  * Query by browser app name by setting `browserApp.name` to the browser app name.
  * Query for traces containing at least one browser app span with `browserApp.name is not null`.
  * Query for traces containing at least one back-end app with `appName is not null`.
  * Query for traces containing both browser and back-end spans by combining the two previous conditions.

## Troubleshooting

If you don't see end-user spans, or are having other distributed tracing issues, see [Troubleshooting](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-missing-trace-data#browser-data).
