src/content/docs/workflow-automation/troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
title: Troubleshoot Workflow Automation
tags:
  - workflow automation
  - troubleshooting
  - workflow errors
metaDescription: "Common issues and solutions for Workflow Automation including AWS credentials, workflow execution, and dashboard problems."
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

<Callout title="preview">
  We're still working on this feature, but we'd love for you to try it out!

  This feature is currently provided as part of a preview program pursuant to our [pre-release policies](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/new-relic-pre-release-policy).
</Callout>

This page provides solutions to common issues you might encounter when using Workflow Automation. For additional support, see the [New Relic Support Forum](https://discuss.newrelic.com/) or contact [New Relic Support](https://support.newrelic.com/).

## AWS credentials and authentication

### Access denied errors [#access-denied-errors]

**Problem:** Your workflow fails with an AWS authorization error.

**Solutions:**
1. **Check your account ID:** Verify you used `253490767857` (not `754728514883`) in the trust policy. The cloud integrations account ID (`754728514883`) is different from the workflow automation account ID.
2. **Verify external ID:** Confirm the external ID in your trust policy matches your New Relic account ID exactly (found in [Account settings](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-structure/account-id)).
3. **Review permissions:** Ensure your IAM role or user has the specific AWS permissions your workflow requires. Check the [Required AWS permissions](/docs/workflow-automation/setup-and-configuration/set-up-aws-credentials#required-aws-permissions) table.
4. **Test with AWS CLI:** Run `aws sts assume-role` locally to verify the role is assumable:

   ```yaml
      aws sts assume-role \
      --role-arn "arn:aws:iam::YOUR_ACCOUNT:role/NewRelicWorkflowAutomationRole" \
      --role-session-name "TestSession" \
      --external-id "YOUR_NR_ACCOUNT_ID"
   ```

### Invalid token or expired credentials

**Problem:** Workflows fail with token expiration errors.

**Solutions:**
1. **For session tokens:** Check the expiration timestamp—session tokens typically last 1-12 hours. Generate new ones before they expire using:

   ```yaml
      aws sts assume-role \
      --role-arn "arn:aws:iam::YOUR_ACCOUNT:role/YOUR_ROLE" \
      --role-session-name "WorkflowAutomationSession"
   ```

2. **For access keys:** Verify both the Access Key ID and Secret Access Key are correctly stored in [secrets manager](/docs/workflow-automation/limitations-and-faq/workflow-best-practices/#secure-credentials). Re-check the values in [NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer](https://one.newrelic.com/nerdgraph-graphiql).
3. **Check secrets syntax:** Ensure you're using `${{ :secrets:keyName }}` format, not `${{ secrets.keyName }}`. The colon prefix (`:secrets:`) is required.

### Can't find my role ARN

**Problem:** You need the ARN but can't locate it in AWS.

**Solution:**
1. Sign in to the [AWS IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/)
2. Choose **Roles** from the navigation
3. Search for your role name (e.g., `NewRelicWorkflowAutomationRole`)
4. Select the role—the ARN appears in the Summary section
5. The ARN format is: `arn:aws:iam::<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT>:role/<ROLE_NAME>`

### Workflows can't access specific AWS resources

**Problem:** Your role has permissions, but workflows still can't access certain resources.

**Solutions:**
1. **Resource-level permissions:** Check if your IAM policy restricts access to specific resource ARNs. You may need to add wildcard (`*`) for testing, then lock down to specific resources.

   ```json
   {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": "ec2:DescribeInstances",
      "Resource": "*"  // Change from specific ARN to * for testing
   }
   ```

2. **Service control policies (SCPs):** If you're in an AWS Organization, SCPs might block certain actions. Contact your AWS administrator to review organization policies.
3. **Region mismatch:** Ensure your IAM permissions specify the correct AWS region where your resources exist. Update the workflow's `awsRegion` parameter to match your resource location.

## Workflow execution issues

### Quick troubleshooting reference

Use this table for fast diagnosis of common workflow problems:

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
               Symptom
            </th>
            <th>
               Check 
            </th>
            <th>
               Solution 
            </th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>
               Workflow fails at a specific step
            </td>
            <td>
               View execution logs for error messages
            </td>
            <td>
              Fix configuration, credentials, or input data for that action 
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
               Workflow runs but produces wrong results
            </td>
            <td>
               Check data passing between steps
            </td>
            <td>
               Verify template syntax `${{ .steps.name.outputs.field }}`
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
               Scheduled workflow doesn't run
            </td>
            <td>
               Check run history for skipped executions
            </td>
            <td>
               Verify schedule configuration and workflow status (Active)
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
               Workflow times out
            </td>
            <td>
              Check execution duration 
            </td>
            <td>
               Reduce polling frequency or split into smaller workflows
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
               Changes don't take effect
            </td>
            <td>
               Check version history
            </td>
            <td>
              Update scheduled runs to use the new version 
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

For detailed instructions on viewing logs and execution history, see [Monitor workflow runs](/docs/workflow-automation/create-a-workflow-automation/managing-workflow#monitor-runs).

### Workflow shows as "Failed" status

**Problem:** A workflow appears with Failed status in the dashboard.

**Solutions:**
1. **Check the run history**:
   - Go to **All Capabilities > Workflow Automation**
   - Click the workflow name
   - View **Run history** to see which execution failed
2. **Review execution logs**:
   - Click **View logs** on the failed run to identify the specific action that failed
   - Look for error messages that indicate the root cause
3. **Common causes**:
   - **Invalid credentials**: Expired tokens, incorrect secrets syntax, or wrong secret keys
   - **Missing permissions**: Insufficient AWS IAM permissions, Slack bot token scopes, or API access
   - **Changes to target resources**: Deleted EC2 instances, removed Slack channels, or renamed databases
   - **API rate limits exceeded**: Too many requests to external services (AWS, Slack, etc.)
   - **Network timeouts**: External APIs taking too long to respond
4. **Fix and rerun**: After resolving the issue, manually trigger the workflow using the [StartWorkflowRun API](/docs/workflow-automation/workflow-automation-apis/start-workflow-run) to verify it works.

### Workflow execution takes too long

**Problem:** Workflow runs exceed expected duration or timeout.

**Solutions:**
1. **Review action sequence**: Check logs to identify slow actions. Look for actions with execution times > 30 seconds.
2. **Optimize queries**: If using NRQL queries, optimize them for better performance:
   - Add specific time ranges instead of querying all data
   - Use `LIMIT` to reduce result set size
   - Filter early with `WHERE` clauses
3. **Check external APIs**: Slow responses from integrated services (AWS, Slack) can delay execution. Test API response times separately.
4. **Consider workflow limits**: Review [workflow limits](/docs/workflow-automation/limitations-and-faq/workflow-limits) for timeout constraints (typically 15 minutes per workflow).
5. **Break into smaller workflows**: Split complex workflows into smaller, focused automations that can run in parallel.

### Changes to workflow don't take effect

**Problem:** You edited a workflow but the changes don't apply when it runs.

**Solutions:**
1. **Verify you saved**: Check that you clicked **Save** after editing the workflow configuration.
2. **Check the version**:
   - Go to workflow details
   - Click **Version history** tab
   - Ensure your latest changes appear as a new version
   - Verify this version is marked as active
3. **Update scheduled runs**: If the workflow runs on a schedule, update the schedule to use the new version:
   - Go to **All Capabilities > Workflow Automation**
   - Find scheduled runs
   - Update the schedule to reference the new workflow version

## Workflow dashboard issues

### Can't find a workflow in the dashboard

**Problem:** A workflow you created doesn't appear in the dashboard list.

**Solutions:**
1. **Check filters**:
   - Click the filter dropdown
   - Select "All" for status filters
   - Clear the search bar
2. **Verify account**: Confirm you're logged into the correct New Relic account where the workflow was created. Check the account selector in the top-right corner.
3. **Check permissions**: Ensure your user role has access to view workflows. Contact your New Relic admin if you need workflow access permissions.
4. **Refresh the page**: Browser caching can sometimes hide recent changes. Try a hard refresh (Ctrl+Shift+R or Cmd+Shift+R).

### Cannot delete a workflow

**Problem:** Delete option is grayed out or deletion fails.

**Solutions:**
1. **Check permissions**: Verify your user role has delete permissions for workflows. Contact your account admin if needed.
2. **Stop scheduled runs**: Cancel any active scheduled runs before deleting:
   - Navigate to the workflow details
   - Go to **Scheduled runs** tab
   - Cancel all active schedules
3. **Check dependencies**: Some workflows cannot be deleted if other automations depend on them. Check if the workflow is referenced by:
   - Other workflows that call it
   - Alert policies that trigger it
   - External systems that start it via API
4. **Contact support**: If the issue persists after trying the above, contact [New Relic Support](https://support.newrelic.com/) for assistance.

## Integration-specific issues

### Slack notifications not appearing

**Problem:** Workflow completes successfully but Slack messages don't appear.

**Solutions:**
1. **Verify channel ID**: Ensure you're using the Slack channel **ID** (e.g., `C01234ABCD`), not the channel name. Find the ID in Slack:
   - Right-click the channel name
   - Select **View channel details**
   - Copy the Channel ID at the bottom
2. **Check bot permissions**: Verify your Slack bot has the following scopes:
   - `chat:write` - Post messages
   - `channels:read` - View public channels
   - `groups:read` - View private channels (if applicable)
3. **Verify bot is in channel**: Add the bot to the target channel:
   - Type `/invite @YourBotName` in the channel
   - Confirm the bot appears in the member list
4. **Check token in secrets**: Verify the Slack token stored in [secrets manager](/docs/workflow-automation/limitations-and-faq/workflow-best-practices/#secure-credentials) is correct and hasn't expired.

### AWS Systems Manager operations fail

**Problem:** SSM automation documents or commands fail to execute.

**Solutions:**
1. **Verify SSM permissions**: Ensure the IAM role has these permissions:
   ```yaml
   {
     "Effect": "Allow",
     "Action": [
       "ssm:CreateDocument",
       "ssm:DeleteDocument",
       "ssm:StartAutomationExecution",
       "ssm:GetAutomationExecution"
     ],
     "Resource": "*"
   }
   ```
2. **Check SSM agent**: Verify the target EC2 instances have the SSM agent installed and running:

   `aws ssm describe-instance-information --region us-east-1`

3. **Verify instance profile**: EC2 instances need an IAM instance profile with SSM permissions to execute commands.
4. **Check document exists**: If using an existing SSM document, verify it exists in your AWS account and region.

## Template-specific issues

### Entity GUID not found

**Problem:** Templates fail with `Entity not found` errors.

**Solutions:**
1. **Find correct entity GUID**:
   - Go to the monitored resource page in New Relic
   - Check the URL or entity metadata for the GUID
   - Use [entity search](/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/what-entity-new-relic#find) to locate entities
2. **Verify entity exists in correct account**: Confirm you're using the entity from the same account where the workflow is deployed
3. **Confirm entity reporting data**: Check that the entity shows **Last seen** recently—stale entities may have been removed
4. **For AWS entities**: Ensure [integrations](/docs/infrastructure/amazon-integrations/get-started/introduction-aws-integrations) are active

<Callout variant="tip">
  **Entity GUIDs are account-specific.** Moving workflows between accounts requires updating all entity GUIDs.
</Callout>

### NRQL query returns no results

**Problem:** Templates using NRQL queries complete but return empty datasets.

**Solutions:**
1. **Test queries first**: Use [query builder](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/query-builder/introduction-query-builder) to validate queries before adding to templates
2. **Verify data type and event names**:
   - Use `FROM Transaction`, not `FROM Transactions`
   - Check attribute names are exact matches (case-sensitive)
3. **Adjust time ranges**: For sparse data, expand the time window:
   - Add `SINCE 1 hour ago` for recent data
   - Use `SINCE 1 day ago` for trends
4. **Simplify and test incrementally**: Start with basic query, add filters one at a time
5. **Check [NRQL syntax](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language)**: Verify query structure matches NRQL requirements

### Template deployment fails

**Problem:** Template won't deploy or shows errors during deployment.

**Solutions:**
1. **Check all required inputs**: Ensure you've filled in all mandatory fields (credentials, GUIDs, queries)
2. **Verify credential format**: Secrets must use `${{ :secrets:keyName }}` format with the colon prefix
3. **Test credentials independently**: Before deploying, test AWS credentials with AWS CLI and Slack tokens in Slack API
4. **Review template requirements**: Each template lists specific prerequisites—verify all are met
5. **Check for special characters**: Some fields (channel names, queries) may fail with special characters—use alphanumeric where possible

### Approval workflows not responding

**Problem:** Templates requiring Slack approval (API Gateway rollback, EC2 resize) don't detect reactions.

**Solutions:**
1. **Verify bot token scopes**:
   - `reactions:read`- Required to detect emoji reactions
   - `chat:write`- Required to post approval messages
2. **Check reaction format**: Use the exact emoji specified in the workflow (e.g., `thumbsup` for approval)
3. **Verify timeout settings**: Approval requests expire after configured timeout (usually 5-10 minutes)
4. **Ensure bot can read messages**: Bot must be in the channel and have permission to read message history
5. **Test with simple approval**: Create a test workflow with just approval logic to isolate the issue

### EC2 instance management issues

**Problem:** EC2 template fails to resize or manage instances.

**Solutions:**
1. **Verify [CloudWatch Metric Streams](/install/aws-cloudwatch/) configured**: Required for real-time EC2 metrics
2. **Check [EC2 monitoring integration](/docs/infrastructure/amazon-integrations/aws-integrations-list/aws-ec2-monitoring-integration/#activate) active**: Ensures instance data flows to New Relic
3. **Confirm instance state**: Instances must be in `running` or `stopped` state—transitional states (pending, stopping) cause failures
4. **Verify instance type compatibility**: Not all instance types support all resize operations—check [AWS instance type documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/)
5. **Check stop/start permissions**: IAM role needs `ec2:StopInstances` and `ec2:StartInstances` in addition to `ec2:ModifyInstanceAttribute`

### JSON parsing template not logging data

**Problem:** JSON parsing template runs successfully but no data appears in New Relic logs.

**Solutions:**
1. **Verify API endpoint**: Test the status page URL in a browser—ensure it returns valid JSON
2. **Check JSON structure**: Template expects specific format—verify component health fields match expected structure
3. **Review log filters**: Ensure logging action uses correct event type and attributes
4. **Test with simple endpoint**: Use a basic JSON endpoint (like https://httpbin.org/json) to verify template mechanics work
5. **Check account permissions**: Verify workflow has permission to write logs to New Relic

### Troubleshooting templates

If your workflow fails or doesn't behave as expected:

1. **Check run history**: Go to **Workflow Automation > [Your Workflow] > Run History** to see execution logs and error messages
2. **Review common issues**: See [Troubleshooting Workflow Automation](/docs/workflow-automation/troubleshooting) for solutions to:
   - AWS credential and permission errors
   - Slack integration problems
   - Entity GUID issues
   - NRQL query failures
   - Workflow timeouts
   - Template-specific troubleshooting

<Callout variant="important">
  **Test templates safely**: Always test in non-production environments first. Infrastructure-changing templates (EC2, API Gateway) can impact availability if misconfigured.
</Callout>

## What's next

- **[Best practices](/docs/workflow-automation/limitations-and-faq/workflow-best-practices)**: Error handling, performance optimization, testing strategies.
- **[Workflow limits](/docs/workflow-automation/limitations-and-faq/workflow-limits)**: Understand timeouts, rate limits, and constraints.

Commit message:

Added the Azure Execute actions catalog

src/content/docs/workflow-automation/troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
title: Troubleshoot Workflow Automation
tags:
  - workflow automation
  - troubleshooting
  - workflow errors
metaDescription: "Common issues and solutions for Workflow Automation including AWS credentials, workflow execution, and dashboard problems."
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

<Callout title="preview">
  We're still working on this feature, but we'd love for you to try it out!

  This feature is currently provided as part of a preview program pursuant to our [pre-release policies](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/new-relic-pre-release-policy).
</Callout>

This page provides solutions to common issues you might encounter when using Workflow Automation. For additional support, see the [New Relic Support Forum](https://discuss.newrelic.com/) or contact [New Relic Support](https://support.newrelic.com/).

## AWS credentials and authentication

### Access denied errors [#access-denied-errors]

**Problem:** Your workflow fails with an AWS authorization error.

**Solutions:**
1. **Check your account ID:** Verify you used `253490767857` (not `754728514883`) in the trust policy. The cloud integrations account ID (`754728514883`) is different from the workflow automation account ID.
2. **Verify external ID:** Confirm the external ID in your trust policy matches your New Relic account ID exactly (found in [Account settings](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-structure/account-id)).
3. **Review permissions:** Ensure your IAM role or user has the specific AWS permissions your workflow requires. Check the [Required AWS permissions](/docs/workflow-automation/setup-and-configuration/set-up-aws-credentials#required-aws-permissions) table.
4. **Test with AWS CLI:** Run `aws sts assume-role` locally to verify the role is assumable:

   ```yaml
      aws sts assume-role \
      --role-arn "arn:aws:iam::YOUR_ACCOUNT:role/NewRelicWorkflowAutomationRole" \
      --role-session-name "TestSession" \
      --external-id "YOUR_NR_ACCOUNT_ID"
   ```

### Invalid token or expired credentials

**Problem:** Workflows fail with token expiration errors.

**Solutions:**
1. **For session tokens:** Check the expiration timestamp—session tokens typically last 1-12 hours. Generate new ones before they expire using:

   ```yaml
      aws sts assume-role \
      --role-arn "arn:aws:iam::YOUR_ACCOUNT:role/YOUR_ROLE" \
      --role-session-name "WorkflowAutomationSession"
   ```

2. **For access keys:** Verify both the Access Key ID and Secret Access Key are correctly stored in [secrets manager](/docs/workflow-automation/limitations-and-faq/workflow-best-practices/#secure-credentials). Re-check the values in [NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer](https://one.newrelic.com/nerdgraph-graphiql).
3. **Check secrets syntax:** Ensure you're using `${{ :secrets:keyName }}` format, not `${{ secrets.keyName }}`. The colon prefix (`:secrets:`) is required.

### Can't find my role ARN

**Problem:** You need the ARN but can't locate it in AWS.

**Solution:**
1. Sign in to the [AWS IAM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/)
2. Choose **Roles** from the navigation
3. Search for your role name (e.g., `NewRelicWorkflowAutomationRole`)
4. Select the role—the ARN appears in the Summary section
5. The ARN format is: `arn:aws:iam::<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT>:role/<ROLE_NAME>`

### Workflows can't access specific AWS resources

**Problem:** Your role has permissions, but workflows still can't access certain resources.

**Solutions:**
1. **Resource-level permissions:** Check if your IAM policy restricts access to specific resource ARNs. You may need to add wildcard (`*`) for testing, then lock down to specific resources.

   ```json
   {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": "ec2:DescribeInstances",
      "Resource": "*"  // Change from specific ARN to * for testing
   }
   ```

2. **Service control policies (SCPs):** If you're in an AWS Organization, SCPs might block certain actions. Contact your AWS administrator to review organization policies.
3. **Region mismatch:** Ensure your IAM permissions specify the correct AWS region where your resources exist. Update the workflow's `awsRegion` parameter to match your resource location.

## Workflow execution issues

### Quick troubleshooting reference

Use this table for fast diagnosis of common workflow problems:

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
               Symptom
            </th>
            <th>
               Check 
            </th>
            <th>
               Solution 
            </th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>
               Workflow fails at a specific step
            </td>
            <td>
               View execution logs for error messages
            </td>
            <td>
              Fix configuration, credentials, or input data for that action 
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
               Workflow runs but produces wrong results
            </td>
            <td>
               Check data passing between steps
            </td>
            <td>
               Verify template syntax `${{ .steps.name.outputs.field }}`
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
               Scheduled workflow doesn't run
            </td>
            <td>
               Check run history for skipped executions
            </td>
            <td>
               Verify schedule configuration and workflow status (Active)
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
               Workflow times out
            </td>
            <td>
              Check execution duration 
            </td>
            <td>
               Reduce polling frequency or split into smaller workflows
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>
               Changes don't take effect
            </td>
            <td>
               Check version history
            </td>
            <td>
              Update scheduled runs to use the new version 
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

For detailed instructions on viewing logs and execution history, see [Monitor workflow runs](/docs/workflow-automation/create-a-workflow-automation/managing-workflow#monitor-runs).

### Workflow shows as "Failed" status

**Problem:** A workflow appears with Failed status in the dashboard.

**Solutions:**
1. **Check the run history**:
   - Go to **All Capabilities > Workflow Automation**
   - Click the workflow name
   - View **Run history** to see which execution failed
2. **Review execution logs**:
   - Click **View logs** on the failed run to identify the specific action that failed
   - Look for error messages that indicate the root cause
3. **Common causes**:
   - **Invalid credentials**: Expired tokens, incorrect secrets syntax, or wrong secret keys
   - **Missing permissions**: Insufficient AWS IAM permissions, Slack bot token scopes, or API access
   - **Changes to target resources**: Deleted EC2 instances, removed Slack channels, or renamed databases
   - **API rate limits exceeded**: Too many requests to external services (AWS, Slack, etc.)
   - **Network timeouts**: External APIs taking too long to respond
4. **Fix and rerun**: After resolving the issue, manually trigger the workflow using the [StartWorkflowRun API](/docs/workflow-automation/workflow-automation-apis/start-workflow-run) to verify it works.

### Workflow execution takes too long

**Problem:** Workflow runs exceed expected duration or timeout.

**Solutions:**
1. **Review action sequence**: Check logs to identify slow actions. Look for actions with execution times > 30 seconds.
2. **Optimize queries**: If using NRQL queries, optimize them for better performance:
   - Add specific time ranges instead of querying all data
   - Use `LIMIT` to reduce result set size
   - Filter early with `WHERE` clauses
3. **Check external APIs**: Slow responses from integrated services (AWS, Slack) can delay execution. Test API response times separately.
4. **Consider workflow limits**: Review [workflow limits](/docs/workflow-automation/limitations-and-faq/workflow-limits) for timeout constraints (typically 15 minutes per workflow).
5. **Break into smaller workflows**: Split complex workflows into smaller, focused automations that can run in parallel.

### Changes to workflow don't take effect

**Problem:** You edited a workflow but the changes don't apply when it runs.

**Solutions:**
1. **Verify you saved**: Check that you clicked **Save** after editing the workflow configuration.
2. **Check the version**:
   - Go to workflow details
   - Click **Version history** tab
   - Ensure your latest changes appear as a new version
   - Verify this version is marked as active
3. **Update scheduled runs**: If the workflow runs on a schedule, update the schedule to use the new version:
   - Go to **All Capabilities > Workflow Automation**
   - Find scheduled runs
   - Update the schedule to reference the new workflow version

## Workflow dashboard issues

### Can't find a workflow in the dashboard

**Problem:** A workflow you created doesn't appear in the dashboard list.

**Solutions:**
1. **Check filters**:
   - Click the filter dropdown
   - Select "All" for status filters
   - Clear the search bar
2. **Verify account**: Confirm you're logged into the correct New Relic account where the workflow was created. Check the account selector in the top-right corner.
3. **Check permissions**: Ensure your user role has access to view workflows. Contact your New Relic admin if you need workflow access permissions.
4. **Refresh the page**: Browser caching can sometimes hide recent changes. Try a hard refresh (Ctrl+Shift+R or Cmd+Shift+R).

### Cannot delete a workflow

**Problem:** Delete option is grayed out or deletion fails.

**Solutions:**
1. **Check permissions**: Verify your user role has delete permissions for workflows. Contact your account admin if needed.
2. **Stop scheduled runs**: Cancel any active scheduled runs before deleting:
   - Navigate to the workflow details
   - Go to **Scheduled runs** tab
   - Cancel all active schedules
3. **Check dependencies**: Some workflows cannot be deleted if other automations depend on them. Check if the workflow is referenced by:
   - Other workflows that call it
   - Alert policies that trigger it
   - External systems that start it via API
4. **Contact support**: If the issue persists after trying the above, contact [New Relic Support](https://support.newrelic.com/) for assistance.

### Disabling Workflow Automation (FCM)

**Problem:** You're turning off Workflow Automation through Feature Control Management (FCM) and need to ensure a clean shutdown.

**Solutions:**
1. **Remove all scheduled workflows first**: If you've turned off FCM, ensure all future scheduled workflows are removed to prevent confusion or alerts:
   - Go to **All Capabilities > Workflow Automation**
   - Review each workflow and check for active schedules
   - Click on workflows with schedules to view their details
   - Go to the **Scheduled runs** tab
   - Delete all active schedules using the [DeleteSchedule API](/docs/workflow-automation/workflow-automation-apis/delete-schedule)
2. **Verify all schedules are removed**: Confirm no scheduled runs remain active before disabling FCM
3. **Disable FCM**: Once all schedules are removed, you can safely disable Workflow Automation through FCM settings

<Callout variant="important">
  **Why remove schedules?** Scheduled workflows cannot execute when Workflow Automation is disabled through FCM. Active schedules remaining in the system may cause confusion or generate unnecessary alerts.
</Callout>

## Integration-specific issues

### Slack notifications not appearing

**Problem:** Workflow completes successfully but Slack messages don't appear.

**Solutions:**
1. **Verify channel ID**: Ensure you're using the Slack channel **ID** (e.g., `C01234ABCD`), not the channel name. Find the ID in Slack:
   - Right-click the channel name
   - Select **View channel details**
   - Copy the Channel ID at the bottom
2. **Check bot permissions**: Verify your Slack bot has the following scopes:
   - `chat:write` - Post messages
   - `channels:read` - View public channels
   - `groups:read` - View private channels (if applicable)
3. **Verify bot is in channel**: Add the bot to the target channel:
   - Type `/invite @YourBotName` in the channel
   - Confirm the bot appears in the member list
4. **Check token in secrets**: Verify the Slack token stored in [secrets manager](/docs/workflow-automation/limitations-and-faq/workflow-best-practices/#secure-credentials) is correct and hasn't expired.

### AWS Systems Manager operations fail

**Problem:** SSM automation documents or commands fail to execute.

**Solutions:**
1. **Verify SSM permissions**: Ensure the IAM role has these permissions:
   ```yaml
   {
     "Effect": "Allow",
     "Action": [
       "ssm:CreateDocument",
       "ssm:DeleteDocument",
       "ssm:StartAutomationExecution",
       "ssm:GetAutomationExecution"
     ],
     "Resource": "*"
   }
   ```
2. **Check SSM agent**: Verify the target EC2 instances have the SSM agent installed and running:

   `aws ssm describe-instance-information --region us-east-1`

3. **Verify instance profile**: EC2 instances need an IAM instance profile with SSM permissions to execute commands.
4. **Check document exists**: If using an existing SSM document, verify it exists in your AWS account and region.

## Template-specific issues

### Entity GUID not found

**Problem:** Templates fail with `Entity not found` errors.

**Solutions:**
1. **Find correct entity GUID**:
   - Go to the monitored resource page in New Relic
   - Check the URL or entity metadata for the GUID
   - Use [entity search](/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/what-entity-new-relic#find) to locate entities
2. **Verify entity exists in correct account**: Confirm you're using the entity from the same account where the workflow is deployed
3. **Confirm entity reporting data**: Check that the entity shows **Last seen** recently—stale entities may have been removed
4. **For AWS entities**: Ensure [integrations](/docs/infrastructure/amazon-integrations/get-started/introduction-aws-integrations) are active

<Callout variant="tip">
  **Entity GUIDs are account-specific.** Moving workflows between accounts requires updating all entity GUIDs.
</Callout>

### NRQL query returns no results

**Problem:** Templates using NRQL queries complete but return empty datasets.

**Solutions:**
1. **Test queries first**: Use [query builder](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/query-builder/introduction-query-builder) to validate queries before adding to templates
2. **Verify data type and event names**:
   - Use `FROM Transaction`, not `FROM Transactions`
   - Check attribute names are exact matches (case-sensitive)
3. **Adjust time ranges**: For sparse data, expand the time window:
   - Add `SINCE 1 hour ago` for recent data
   - Use `SINCE 1 day ago` for trends
4. **Simplify and test incrementally**: Start with basic query, add filters one at a time
5. **Check [NRQL syntax](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language)**: Verify query structure matches NRQL requirements

### Template deployment fails

**Problem:** Template won't deploy or shows errors during deployment.

**Solutions:**
1. **Check all required inputs**: Ensure you've filled in all mandatory fields (credentials, GUIDs, queries)
2. **Verify credential format**: Secrets must use `${{ :secrets:keyName }}` format with the colon prefix
3. **Test credentials independently**: Before deploying, test AWS credentials with AWS CLI and Slack tokens in Slack API
4. **Review template requirements**: Each template lists specific prerequisites—verify all are met
5. **Check for special characters**: Some fields (channel names, queries) may fail with special characters—use alphanumeric where possible

### Approval workflows not responding

**Problem:** Templates requiring Slack approval (API Gateway rollback, EC2 resize) don't detect reactions.

**Solutions:**
1. **Verify bot token scopes**:
   - `reactions:read`- Required to detect emoji reactions
   - `chat:write`- Required to post approval messages
2. **Check reaction format**: Use the exact emoji specified in the workflow (e.g., `thumbsup` for approval)
3. **Verify timeout settings**: Approval requests expire after configured timeout (usually 5-10 minutes)
4. **Ensure bot can read messages**: Bot must be in the channel and have permission to read message history
5. **Test with simple approval**: Create a test workflow with just approval logic to isolate the issue

### EC2 instance management issues

**Problem:** EC2 template fails to resize or manage instances.

**Solutions:**
1. **Verify [CloudWatch Metric Streams](/install/aws-cloudwatch/) configured**: Required for real-time EC2 metrics
2. **Check [EC2 monitoring integration](/docs/infrastructure/amazon-integrations/aws-integrations-list/aws-ec2-monitoring-integration/#activate) active**: Ensures instance data flows to New Relic
3. **Confirm instance state**: Instances must be in `running` or `stopped` state—transitional states (pending, stopping) cause failures
4. **Verify instance type compatibility**: Not all instance types support all resize operations—check [AWS instance type documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/)
5. **Check stop/start permissions**: IAM role needs `ec2:StopInstances` and `ec2:StartInstances` in addition to `ec2:ModifyInstanceAttribute`

### JSON parsing template not logging data

**Problem:** JSON parsing template runs successfully but no data appears in New Relic logs.

**Solutions:**
1. **Verify API endpoint**: Test the status page URL in a browser—ensure it returns valid JSON
2. **Check JSON structure**: Template expects specific format—verify component health fields match expected structure
3. **Review log filters**: Ensure logging action uses correct event type and attributes
4. **Test with simple endpoint**: Use a basic JSON endpoint (like https://httpbin.org/json) to verify template mechanics work
5. **Check account permissions**: Verify workflow has permission to write logs to New Relic

### Troubleshooting templates

If your workflow fails or doesn't behave as expected:

1. **Check run history**: Go to **Workflow Automation > [Your Workflow] > Run History** to see execution logs and error messages
2. **Review common issues**: See [Troubleshooting Workflow Automation](/docs/workflow-automation/troubleshooting) for solutions to:
   - AWS credential and permission errors
   - Slack integration problems
   - Entity GUID issues
   - NRQL query failures
   - Workflow timeouts
   - Template-specific troubleshooting

<Callout variant="important">
  **Test templates safely**: Always test in non-production environments first. Infrastructure-changing templates (EC2, API Gateway) can impact availability if misconfigured.
</Callout>

## What's next

- **[Best practices](/docs/workflow-automation/limitations-and-faq/workflow-best-practices)**: Error handling, performance optimization, testing strategies.
- **[Workflow limits](/docs/workflow-automation/limitations-and-faq/workflow-limits)**: Understand timeouts, rate limits, and constraints.
