src/content/docs/security/security-privacy/compliance/fedramp-compliant-endpoints.mdx, before:

---
title: FedRAMP-compliant endpoints
tags:
  - Security
  - Security and Privacy
  - Compliance
metaDescription: New Relic's FedRAMP compliant endpoints.
redirects:
  - /docs/fedramp-compliant-endpoints
  - /docs/security/new-relic-security/compliance/fedramp-compliant-endpoints
  - /docs/fedramp-endpoint-logs-metrics
---

This document provides information on FedRAMP-compliant endpoints in New Relic. For more information about our security accreditation for the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP), see our [data encryption](/docs/security/new-relic-security/compliance/data-encryption) documentation. For further information on New Relic networks, domains, and ports see our [networking](/docs/using-new-relic/cross-product-functions/install-configure/networks) documentation.

## Customer FedRAMP obligations [#obligations]

New Relic customers must meet all of the following requirements for New Relic’s FedRAMP environment:

  1. **New Relic-approved customers**: New Relic’s FedRAMP-Moderate authorized environment is only available to New Relic-approved customers. For more information, contact your New Relic account representative.

  2. **Order form**: Customer’s order form with New Relic must include customer’s eligibility for FedRAMP.

  3. **Subscription level**: Customer must have a current and valid subscription to our Enterprise edition or a New Relic-approved subscription.

  4. **Authorized New Relic endpoints**: Customer must send its data only to New Relic’s FedRAMP-designated endpoints.

  5. **Authorized services and features**: Customer must use only FedRAMP audited and authorized New Relic services and features (see below).


## Overview of data sources [#overview]

There are multiple ways to get data into New Relic. This doc has two sections:  

* [Agent settings](#agents): for our APM agents, infrastructure agent, browser agent, and mobile agent.  
* [Data-ingest APIs](#data-ingest-apis): for our Metric API, Event API, Trace API, and Log API, and the integrations that use those APIs. 

## Agents [#agents]

New Relic has several agents for reporting data, like our APM agents, infrastructure agents, mobile agents, and browser agent. Setting these agents to send FedRAMP-compliant data involves setting a configuration setting to use the relevant FedRAMP endpoint. 

### APM agents [#apm-endpoints]

To ensure FedRAMP compliance, all [APM agent configurations](/docs/using-new-relic/cross-product-functions/install-configure/configure-new-relic-agents/) must report to `gov-collector.newrelic.com` rather than the default. Depending on the agent, you can either use code-based configuration or an environment variable. Here are details on enabling this:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "150px" }}>
        Language
      </th>

      <th>
        Code or environment variable
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        C SDK
      </td>

      <td>
        In code:

        ```
        strcpy(_newrelic_app_config_t->redirect_collector, "gov-collector.newrelic.com");
        ```

        Environment variable: none
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Go
      </td>

      <td>
        In code:

        ```
        app, err = newrelic.NewApplication(
          newrelic.ConfigAppName("App Name"),
          newrelic.ConfigLicense(os.Getenv("NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY")),
          func(cfg *newrelic.Config) {
            cfg.Host = "gov-collector.newrelic.com"
          },
        )
        ```

        Environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_HOST`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Java
      </td>

      <td>
        In `newrelic.yml`:

        ```
        common: &default_settings
          host: gov-collector.newrelic.com
        ```

        Or set a system property of:

        ```
        newrelic.config.host
        ```

        Environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_HOST`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        .NET
      </td>

      <td>
        In your XML config next to the license key:

        ```
        <service licenseKey="YOUR_LICENSE_KEY"
        host="gov-collector.newrelic.com"/>
        ```

        Environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_HOST`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Node.js
      </td>

      <td>
        In `newrelic.js`:

        ```
        host: 'gov-collector.newrelic.com'
        ```

        Environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_HOST`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        PHP
      </td>

      <td>
        In `newrelic.ini`:

        ```
        newrelic.daemon.collector_host = gov-collector.newrelic.com
        ```

        Environment variable: none
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Python
      </td>

      <td>
        In `newrelic.ini`:

        ```
        [newrelic]
        host = gov-collector.newrelic.com
        ```

        Environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_HOST`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Ruby
      </td>

      <td>
        In `newrelic.yml`:

        ```
        common: &default_settings
          host: gov-collector.newrelic.com
        ```

        Environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_HOST`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Elixir (open source agent)
      </td>

      <td>
        In `config.exs`:

        ```
        config :new_relic_agent,
          host: "gov-collector.newrelic.com"
        ```

        Environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_HOST`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

For more on configuring APM agents, see [APM configuration](/docs/using-new-relic/cross-product-functions/install-configure/configure-new-relic-agents).

### Mobile monitoring agents [#mobile-endpoints]

To ensure FedRAMP compliance when using our [mobile monitoring agents](/docs/mobile-monitoring), all agent configurations must report to `gov-mobile-collector.newrelic.com` rather than the default. You must use code-based configuration. Environment variables are not available. 

Framework-specific configurations:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "150px" }}>
        Agent
      </th>

      <th>
        Code or environment variable
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Android
      </td>

      <td>
        In code:

        ```
        NewRelic.withApplicationToken({APP_TOKEN})
            .usingCollectorAddress("gov-mobile-collector.newrelic.com")
            .usingCrashCollectorAddress("gov-mobile-crash.newrelic.com")
            .start(this.getApplication());
        ```

        Environment variable: none
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        iOS
      </td>

      <td>
        In code:

        ```
        [NewRelic startWithApplicationToken:@"{APP_TOKEN}"
            andCollectorAddress:@"gov-mobile-collector.newrelic.com"
            andCrashCollectorAddress:@"gov-mobile-crash.newrelic.com"];
        ```

        Environment variable: none
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Infrastructure monitoring [#infrastructure-endpoints]

If you have infrastructure agent version [1.15.0 or higher](/docs/release-notes/infrastructure-release-notes/infrastructure-agent-release-notes/new-relic-infrastructure-agent-1150), simply enable the [FedRAMP configuration option](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/configuration/infrastructure-agent-configuration-settings#fedramp). This enables FedRAMP compliancy for data reported by the infrastructure agent, and for any [on-host integrations](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list) that work with the infrastructure agent to report data. 

<Callout variant="important">
 The AWS CloudWatch Metric Streams integration is not currently FedRAMP compliant.
</Callout>

If you have an older agent version, use the following values to edit your YAML configuration:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="infrastructure-older-versions"
    title="Infrastructure agent versions below 1.15.0"
  >  

If you have an infrastructure agent version below 1.15.0, you must change three of the endpoints used for reporting. To set these endpoints, you can change your YAML configuration or use environment variables.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        **YAML config field**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Endpoint URL**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `collector_url`
      </td>

      <td>
        ```
        https://gov-infra-api.newrelic.com
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `identity_url`
      </td>

      <td>
        ```
        https://gov-identity-api.newrelic.com
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `command_channel_url`
      </td>

      <td>
        ```
        https://gov-infrastructure-command-api.newrelic.com
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

To edit environment variables, use these values:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "300px" }}>
        **Environment variable**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Endpoint URL**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `NRIA_COLLECTOR_URL`
      </td>

      <td>
        ```
        https://gov-infra-api.newrelic.com
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `NRIA_IDENTITY_URL`
      </td>

      <td>
        ```
        https://gov-identity-api.newrelic.com
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `NRIA_COMMAND_CHANNEL_URL`
      </td>

      <td>
        ```
        https://gov-infrastructure-command-api.newrelic.com
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>


### Browser agent [#browser-endpoints]

Browser agents will automatically update your account information to use the correct endpoints.  

## Data-ingest APIs [#data-ingest-apis]

Below are details about the FedRAMP endpoint for our [ingest APIs](/docs/apis/get-started/intro-apis/introduction-new-relic-apis/#data-type-apis): Metric API, the Event API, the Log API, and the Trace API. 

### OTLP API [#otlp-api]

To ensure FedRAMP compliance when using the [OTLP API](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start#review-settings), instead of sending to the US OTLP API endpoint of  `https://otlp.nr-data.net:4317`, send data to `https://gov-otlp.nr-data.net:4317`.

### Metric API [#metric-api]

To ensure FedRAMP compliance when using the [Metric API](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/ingest-apis/introduction-metric-api/), instead of sending [metric data](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/understand-data/new-relic-data-types/#dimensional-metrics) to the default Metric API endpoint of  `https://metric-api.newrelic.com/metric/v1`, it must be sent to `https://gov-metric-api.newrelic.com/metric/v1`.

The Metric API can be used directly but it's mainly used by various New Relic tools. Below are instructions showing where to edit the configuration for setting the FedRAMP endpoint.

#### Telemetry integrations [#telemetry-integrations]

Here are instructions for our [open source telemetry integrations](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations) that report metric data:

* Dropwizard: use the [`overrideUri` configuration](https://github.com/newrelic/dropwizard-metrics-newrelic#dropwizard-metrics-reporter).
* Kamon: use the `metric-ingest-url` configuration. See [Override endpoints](https://kamon.io/docs/latest/reporters/newrelic/).
* Micrometer: override the `public String uri()` method on your `NewRelicRegistryConfig` to return the new endpoint. See [an example](https://github.com/newrelic/micrometer-registry-newrelic/wiki/Spring-Config-Example).
* Prometheus: 
  * [Prometheus OpenMetrics](/docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/get-started/send-prometheus-metric-data-new-relic/#OpenMetrics): if you are using our [nri-prometheus helm chart](https://github.com/newrelic/helm-charts/blob/master/charts/nri-prometheus), you can change the endpoint in your `values.yml` file, like in [this example](https://github.com/newrelic/helm-charts/blob/b5b6a3932989e0fa7be81c496417a68f7fde0f9e/charts/nri-prometheus/values.yaml#L68). If you're using the [nri-bundle chart](https://github.com/newrelic/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/nri-bundle), you need to nest this value under the `nri-prometheus` key to propagate it to the sub-chart.

<Callout variant="caution">
The [Prometheus remote write integration](/docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/get-started/send-prometheus-metric-data-new-relic/#remote-write) is not available for use with the `https://gov-metric-api.newrelic.com/metric/v1` endpoint at this time and attempted requests will result in an `HTTP 501 Not Implemented` status code. Consider using the [Prometheus OpenMetrics](/docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/get-started/send-prometheus-metric-data-new-relic/#OpenMetrics) integration instead.
</Callout>

#### Telemetry SDKs [#telemetry-sdks]

Here are instructions for our [Telemetry SDKs](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/get-started/capabilities/telemetry-sdks-send-custom-telemetry-data-new-relic) that report metric data:

* Go: use the [`MetricsURLOverride` configuration](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-go/blob/9ff9c3035f5a4745f2f3df7ed1b13c6595542b40/telemetry/config.go#L40-L41).
* Java: in the `MetricBatchSender` section, configure the endpoint. See [an example](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-java/blob/6d9bd99426c432cddb152c984b83508fe5aad922/telemetry_examples/src/main/java/com/newrelic/telemetry/examples/ConfigurationExamples.java#L77).
* .NET: use the [`MetricUrlOverride` configuration](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-dotnet/blob/2042f7bf617d4a5a90f858f1d81e1a678f648f26/src/NewRelic.Telemetry/TelemetryConfiguration.cs#L36).
* Node.js: edit the [`METRIC_HOST = 'metric-api.newrelic.com'` configuration](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-node/blob/3cfbd52a4b6f5f4a41da9d14d5ea51bd8925234c/src/telemetry/metrics/client.ts#L5).
* Python: edit the [`HOST = "metric-api.newrelic.com"` configuration](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-python/blob/044c18bfdc86128e8babb8016913cff934ad71a0/src/newrelic_telemetry_sdk/client.py#L289).


### Event API [#event-api]

To ensure FedRAMP compliance for the [Event API](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/ingest-apis/introduction-event-api), all traffic reporting to `insights-collector.newrelic.com` must instead report to `gov-insights-collector.newrelic.com`.

The Event API endpoint is configurable for the following [Telemetry SDKs](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/ingest-apis/telemetry-sdks-report-custom-telemetry-data). The Telemetry SDKs are used by our [open-source telemetry integrations](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations).  

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "150px" }}>
        **Language**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Solution**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Java Telemetry SDK
      </td>

      <td>
        In code:

        ```
        SenderConfiguration configuration = SenderConfiguration
          .builder(
            "gov-insights-collector.newrelic.com",
            EventBatchSender.EVENTS_PATH)
          .build();

        EventBatchSender eventBatchSender = EventBatchSender.create(configuration);
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Python Telemetry SDK
      </td>

      <td>
        In code:

        ```
        event_client = EventClient(host="gov-insights-collector.newrelic.com")
        ```

        For more information, see our [Telemetry API documentation in GitHub](http://newrelic.github.io/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-python/api.html#newrelic_telemetry_sdk.client.EventClient).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Log API [#log-api]

To ensure FedRAMP compliance for data sent via the [Log API](/docs/logs/log-management/log-api/introduction-log-api/), the solution for almost all our logging tools is to replace the `https://log-api.newrelic.com/log/v1` endpoint with `https://gov-log-api.newrelic.com/log/v1`. Here are details for various tools:

#### Log forwarders

Here are details on changing the endpoint for our [log forwarders](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic): 

* AWS Firelens: Add the `endpoint` property to the `options` field of the `logConfiguration`, similar to to the EU account endpoint change shown in [these Firelens endpoint configuration instructions](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/aws-firelens-plugin-log-forwarding#find-data).
* Fluentbit: Use [our Fluentbit endpoint configuration](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-fluent-bit-output#configuration-parameters).
* Fluentd: Use [our Fluentd endpoint instructions](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/fluentd-plugin-log-forwarding#instrument-plugin).
* Infrastructure agent: See [FedRAMP for infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/configuration/infrastructure-agent-configuration-settings/#fedramp).
* Kubernetes: Our Kubernetes integration logs are based on fluentbit’s output plugin. Use [these endpoint instructions](https://github.com/newrelic/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/newrelic-logging#installation).
* Logstash: Use [our Logstash endpoint configuration](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/logstash-plugin-log-forwarding#instrument-plugin).
* Syslog: For configuring syslog clients, see [TCP endpoint configuration](/docs/logs/log-management/log-api/use-tcp-endpoint-forward-logs-new-relic/).
* S3: Not available.
* Vector: Not available.

To use the Log API directly, you'd edit the [Log API endpoint configuration](/docs/logs/log-management/log-api/introduction-log-api#endpoint).

### Trace API [#trace-api]

To ensure FedRAMP compliance for data sent via the [Trace API](/docs/distributed-tracing/trace-api/introduction-trace-api/) (including [telemetry integrations](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/get-started/introduction-new-relics-open-source-telemetry-integrations) that use this API), replace the `https://trace-api.newrelic.com/trace/v1` endpoint with `https://gov-trace-api.newrelic.com/trace/v1`. 

Notes about FedRAMP compliance for other trace data: 
* Trace data is reported by some of our agents, like our APM agents, browser agent, and mobile agent. To enable FedRAMP compliance for that data, you would [enable FedRAMP for the applicable agent](#agents).
* To enable FedRAMP compliance for [Infinite Tracing](/docs/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/introduction-infinite-tracing/), you would create a new FedRAMP compliant trace observer from the [New Relic Edge app](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/mtb-nerdlets.edge-launcher).

Commit message:

Add important callout for endpoints not listed
Confusion arises when customers see that:

- We have a list of non-compliant services where Synthetics is not listed.
- We have a list of compliant endpoints where Synthetics is also not listed.

This callout helps to clarify that this list of FedRAMP compliant endpoints is for service who's main endpoint is non-compliant. If a service's endpoint is not listed here and is not a non-compliant service, then it is compliant.

src/content/docs/security/security-privacy/compliance/fedramp-compliant-endpoints.mdx, after:

---
title: FedRAMP-compliant endpoints
tags:
  - Security
  - Security and Privacy
  - Compliance
metaDescription: New Relic's FedRAMP compliant endpoints.
redirects:
  - /docs/fedramp-compliant-endpoints
  - /docs/security/new-relic-security/compliance/fedramp-compliant-endpoints
  - /docs/fedramp-endpoint-logs-metrics
---

This document provides information on FedRAMP-compliant endpoints in New Relic. For more information about our security accreditation for the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP), see our [data encryption](/docs/security/new-relic-security/compliance/data-encryption) documentation. For further information on New Relic networks, domains, and ports see our [networking](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/networks) documentation.

<Callout variant="important">
 If a service's endpoint is not listed in this document and the service is not found in our list of [services not in scope](/docs/security/security-privacy/compliance/certificates-standards-regulations/fedramp-moderate), then the service's standard endpoint already meets FedRAMP compliance requirements as-is, without the need for a distinct FedRAMP endpoint.
</Callout>

## Customer FedRAMP obligations [#obligations]

New Relic customers must meet all of the following requirements for New Relic’s FedRAMP environment:

  1. **New Relic-approved customers**: New Relic’s FedRAMP-Moderate authorized environment is only available to New Relic-approved customers. For more information, contact your New Relic account representative.

  2. **Order form**: Customer’s order form with New Relic must include customer’s eligibility for FedRAMP.

  3. **Subscription level**: Customer must have a current and valid subscription to our Enterprise edition or a New Relic-approved subscription.

  4. **Authorized New Relic endpoints**: Customer must send its data only to New Relic’s FedRAMP-designated endpoints.

  5. **Authorized services and features**: Customer must use only FedRAMP audited and authorized New Relic services and features (see below).


## Overview of data sources [#overview]

There are multiple ways to get data into New Relic. This doc has two sections:  

* [Agent settings](#agents): for our APM agents, infrastructure agent, browser agent, and mobile agent.  
* [Data-ingest APIs](#data-ingest-apis): for our Metric API, Event API, Trace API, and Log API, and the integrations that use those APIs. 

## Agents [#agents]

New Relic has several agents for reporting data, like our APM agents, infrastructure agents, mobile agents, and browser agent. Setting these agents to send FedRAMP-compliant data involves setting a configuration setting to use the relevant FedRAMP endpoint. 

### APM agents [#apm-endpoints]

To ensure FedRAMP compliance, all [APM agent configurations](/docs/using-new-relic/cross-product-functions/install-configure/configure-new-relic-agents/) must report to `gov-collector.newrelic.com` rather than the default. Depending on the agent, you can either use code-based configuration or an environment variable. Here are details on enabling this:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "150px" }}>
        Language
      </th>

      <th>
        Code or environment variable
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        C SDK
      </td>

      <td>
        In code:

        ```
        strcpy(_newrelic_app_config_t->redirect_collector, "gov-collector.newrelic.com");
        ```

        Environment variable: none
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Go
      </td>

      <td>
        In code:

        ```
        app, err = newrelic.NewApplication(
          newrelic.ConfigAppName("App Name"),
          newrelic.ConfigLicense(os.Getenv("NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY")),
          func(cfg *newrelic.Config) {
            cfg.Host = "gov-collector.newrelic.com"
          },
        )
        ```

        Environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_HOST`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Java
      </td>

      <td>
        In `newrelic.yml`:

        ```
        common: &default_settings
          host: gov-collector.newrelic.com
        ```

        Or set a system property of:

        ```
        newrelic.config.host
        ```

        Environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_HOST`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        .NET
      </td>

      <td>
        In your XML config next to the license key:

        ```
        <service licenseKey="YOUR_LICENSE_KEY"
        host="gov-collector.newrelic.com"/>
        ```

        Environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_HOST`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Node.js
      </td>

      <td>
        In `newrelic.js`:

        ```
        host: 'gov-collector.newrelic.com'
        ```

        Environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_HOST`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        PHP
      </td>

      <td>
        In `newrelic.ini`:

        ```
        newrelic.daemon.collector_host = gov-collector.newrelic.com
        ```

        Environment variable: none
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Python
      </td>

      <td>
        In `newrelic.ini`:

        ```
        [newrelic]
        host = gov-collector.newrelic.com
        ```

        Environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_HOST`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Ruby
      </td>

      <td>
        In `newrelic.yml`:

        ```
        common: &default_settings
          host: gov-collector.newrelic.com
        ```

        Environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_HOST`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Elixir (open source agent)
      </td>

      <td>
        In `config.exs`:

        ```
        config :new_relic_agent,
          host: "gov-collector.newrelic.com"
        ```

        Environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_HOST`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

For more on configuring APM agents, see [APM configuration](/docs/using-new-relic/cross-product-functions/install-configure/configure-new-relic-agents).

### Mobile monitoring agents [#mobile-endpoints]

To ensure FedRAMP compliance when using our [mobile monitoring agents](/docs/mobile-monitoring), all agent configurations must report to `gov-mobile-collector.newrelic.com` rather than the default. You must use code-based configuration. Environment variables are not available. 

Framework-specific configurations:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "150px" }}>
        Agent
      </th>

      <th>
        Code or environment variable
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Android
      </td>

      <td>
        In code:

        ```
        NewRelic.withApplicationToken({APP_TOKEN})
            .usingCollectorAddress("gov-mobile-collector.newrelic.com")
            .usingCrashCollectorAddress("gov-mobile-crash.newrelic.com")
            .start(this.getApplication());
        ```

        Environment variable: none
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        iOS
      </td>

      <td>
        In code:

        ```
        [NewRelic startWithApplicationToken:@"{APP_TOKEN}"
            andCollectorAddress:@"gov-mobile-collector.newrelic.com"
            andCrashCollectorAddress:@"gov-mobile-crash.newrelic.com"];
        ```

        Environment variable: none
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Infrastructure monitoring [#infrastructure-endpoints]

If you have infrastructure agent version [1.15.0 or higher](/docs/release-notes/infrastructure-release-notes/infrastructure-agent-release-notes/new-relic-infrastructure-agent-1150), simply enable the [FedRAMP configuration option](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/configuration/infrastructure-agent-configuration-settings#fedramp). This enables FedRAMP compliancy for data reported by the infrastructure agent, and for any [on-host integrations](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list) that work with the infrastructure agent to report data. 

<Callout variant="important">
 The AWS CloudWatch Metric Streams integration is not currently FedRAMP compliant.
</Callout>

If you have an older agent version, use the following values to edit your YAML configuration:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="infrastructure-older-versions"
    title="Infrastructure agent versions below 1.15.0"
  >  

If you have an infrastructure agent version below 1.15.0, you must change three of the endpoints used for reporting. To set these endpoints, you can change your YAML configuration or use environment variables.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        **YAML config field**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Endpoint URL**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `collector_url`
      </td>

      <td>
        ```
        https://gov-infra-api.newrelic.com
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `identity_url`
      </td>

      <td>
        ```
        https://gov-identity-api.newrelic.com
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `command_channel_url`
      </td>

      <td>
        ```
        https://gov-infrastructure-command-api.newrelic.com
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

To edit environment variables, use these values:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "300px" }}>
        **Environment variable**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Endpoint URL**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `NRIA_COLLECTOR_URL`
      </td>

      <td>
        ```
        https://gov-infra-api.newrelic.com
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `NRIA_IDENTITY_URL`
      </td>

      <td>
        ```
        https://gov-identity-api.newrelic.com
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `NRIA_COMMAND_CHANNEL_URL`
      </td>

      <td>
        ```
        https://gov-infrastructure-command-api.newrelic.com
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>


### Browser agent [#browser-endpoints]

Browser agents will automatically update your account information to use the correct endpoints.  

## Data-ingest APIs [#data-ingest-apis]

Below are details about the FedRAMP endpoint for our [ingest APIs](/docs/apis/get-started/intro-apis/introduction-new-relic-apis/#data-type-apis): Metric API, the Event API, the Log API, and the Trace API. 

### OTLP API [#otlp-api]

To ensure FedRAMP compliance when using the [OTLP API](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start#review-settings), instead of sending to the US OTLP API endpoint of  `https://otlp.nr-data.net:4317`, send data to `https://gov-otlp.nr-data.net:4317`.

### Metric API [#metric-api]

To ensure FedRAMP compliance when using the [Metric API](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/ingest-apis/introduction-metric-api/), instead of sending [metric data](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/understand-data/new-relic-data-types/#dimensional-metrics) to the default Metric API endpoint of  `https://metric-api.newrelic.com/metric/v1`, it must be sent to `https://gov-metric-api.newrelic.com/metric/v1`.

The Metric API can be used directly but it's mainly used by various New Relic tools. Below are instructions showing where to edit the configuration for setting the FedRAMP endpoint.

#### Telemetry integrations [#telemetry-integrations]

Here are instructions for our [open source telemetry integrations](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations) that report metric data:

* Dropwizard: use the [`overrideUri` configuration](https://github.com/newrelic/dropwizard-metrics-newrelic#dropwizard-metrics-reporter).
* Kamon: use the `metric-ingest-url` configuration. See [Override endpoints](https://kamon.io/docs/latest/reporters/newrelic/).
* Micrometer: override the `public String uri()` method on your `NewRelicRegistryConfig` to return the new endpoint. See [an example](https://github.com/newrelic/micrometer-registry-newrelic/wiki/Spring-Config-Example).
* Prometheus: 
  * [Prometheus OpenMetrics](/docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/get-started/send-prometheus-metric-data-new-relic/#OpenMetrics): if you are using our [nri-prometheus helm chart](https://github.com/newrelic/helm-charts/blob/master/charts/nri-prometheus), you can change the endpoint in your `values.yml` file, like in [this example](https://github.com/newrelic/helm-charts/blob/b5b6a3932989e0fa7be81c496417a68f7fde0f9e/charts/nri-prometheus/values.yaml#L68). If you're using the [nri-bundle chart](https://github.com/newrelic/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/nri-bundle), you need to nest this value under the `nri-prometheus` key to propagate it to the sub-chart.

<Callout variant="caution">
The [Prometheus remote write integration](/docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/get-started/send-prometheus-metric-data-new-relic/#remote-write) is not available for use with the `https://gov-metric-api.newrelic.com/metric/v1` endpoint at this time and attempted requests will result in an `HTTP 501 Not Implemented` status code. Consider using the [Prometheus OpenMetrics](/docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/get-started/send-prometheus-metric-data-new-relic/#OpenMetrics) integration instead.
</Callout>

#### Telemetry SDKs [#telemetry-sdks]

Here are instructions for our [Telemetry SDKs](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/get-started/capabilities/telemetry-sdks-send-custom-telemetry-data-new-relic) that report metric data:

* Go: use the [`MetricsURLOverride` configuration](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-go/blob/9ff9c3035f5a4745f2f3df7ed1b13c6595542b40/telemetry/config.go#L40-L41).
* Java: in the `MetricBatchSender` section, configure the endpoint. See [an example](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-java/blob/6d9bd99426c432cddb152c984b83508fe5aad922/telemetry_examples/src/main/java/com/newrelic/telemetry/examples/ConfigurationExamples.java#L77).
* .NET: use the [`MetricUrlOverride` configuration](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-dotnet/blob/2042f7bf617d4a5a90f858f1d81e1a678f648f26/src/NewRelic.Telemetry/TelemetryConfiguration.cs#L36).
* Node.js: edit the [`METRIC_HOST = 'metric-api.newrelic.com'` configuration](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-node/blob/3cfbd52a4b6f5f4a41da9d14d5ea51bd8925234c/src/telemetry/metrics/client.ts#L5).
* Python: edit the [`HOST = "metric-api.newrelic.com"` configuration](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-python/blob/044c18bfdc86128e8babb8016913cff934ad71a0/src/newrelic_telemetry_sdk/client.py#L289).


### Event API [#event-api]

To ensure FedRAMP compliance for the [Event API](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/ingest-apis/introduction-event-api), all traffic reporting to `insights-collector.newrelic.com` must instead report to `gov-insights-collector.newrelic.com`.

The Event API endpoint is configurable for the following [Telemetry SDKs](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-manage-data/ingest-apis/telemetry-sdks-report-custom-telemetry-data). The Telemetry SDKs are used by our [open-source telemetry integrations](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations).  

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "150px" }}>
        **Language**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Solution**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Java Telemetry SDK
      </td>

      <td>
        In code:

        ```
        SenderConfiguration configuration = SenderConfiguration
          .builder(
            "gov-insights-collector.newrelic.com",
            EventBatchSender.EVENTS_PATH)
          .build();

        EventBatchSender eventBatchSender = EventBatchSender.create(configuration);
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Python Telemetry SDK
      </td>

      <td>
        In code:

        ```
        event_client = EventClient(host="gov-insights-collector.newrelic.com")
        ```

        For more information, see our [Telemetry API documentation in GitHub](http://newrelic.github.io/newrelic-telemetry-sdk-python/api.html#newrelic_telemetry_sdk.client.EventClient).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Log API [#log-api]

To ensure FedRAMP compliance for data sent via the [Log API](/docs/logs/log-management/log-api/introduction-log-api/), the solution for almost all our logging tools is to replace the `https://log-api.newrelic.com/log/v1` endpoint with `https://gov-log-api.newrelic.com/log/v1`. Here are details for various tools:

#### Log forwarders

Here are details on changing the endpoint for our [log forwarders](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic): 

* AWS Firelens: Add the `endpoint` property to the `options` field of the `logConfiguration`, similar to to the EU account endpoint change shown in [these Firelens endpoint configuration instructions](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/aws-firelens-plugin-log-forwarding#find-data).
* Fluentbit: Use [our Fluentbit endpoint configuration](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-fluent-bit-output#configuration-parameters).
* Fluentd: Use [our Fluentd endpoint instructions](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/fluentd-plugin-log-forwarding#instrument-plugin).
* Infrastructure agent: See [FedRAMP for infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/configuration/infrastructure-agent-configuration-settings/#fedramp).
* Kubernetes: Our Kubernetes integration logs are based on fluentbit’s output plugin. Use [these endpoint instructions](https://github.com/newrelic/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/newrelic-logging#installation).
* Logstash: Use [our Logstash endpoint configuration](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/logstash-plugin-log-forwarding#instrument-plugin).
* Syslog: For configuring syslog clients, see [TCP endpoint configuration](/docs/logs/log-management/log-api/use-tcp-endpoint-forward-logs-new-relic/).
* S3: Not available.
* Vector: Not available.

To use the Log API directly, you'd edit the [Log API endpoint configuration](/docs/logs/log-management/log-api/introduction-log-api#endpoint).

### Trace API [#trace-api]

To ensure FedRAMP compliance for data sent via the [Trace API](/docs/distributed-tracing/trace-api/introduction-trace-api/) (including [telemetry integrations](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/get-started/introduction-new-relics-open-source-telemetry-integrations) that use this API), replace the `https://trace-api.newrelic.com/trace/v1` endpoint with `https://gov-trace-api.newrelic.com/trace/v1`. 

Notes about FedRAMP compliance for other trace data: 
* Trace data is reported by some of our agents, like our APM agents, browser agent, and mobile agent. To enable FedRAMP compliance for that data, you would [enable FedRAMP for the applicable agent](#agents).
* To enable FedRAMP compliance for [Infinite Tracing](/docs/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/introduction-infinite-tracing/), you would create a new FedRAMP compliant trace observer from the [New Relic Edge app](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/mtb-nerdlets.edge-launcher).
