src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/groups-roles-capabilities.mdx, before:

---
title: Groups, roles, and capabilities
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'For the New Relic One user model, explanation of groups, roles, and capabilities.'
redirects:
  - /docs/users-roles
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/users-roles
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/new-relic-one-user-model
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model-understand-user-structure
---

<Callout variant="important">
  This doc applies to users on the [New Relic One user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models). For more on this, see [User model changes](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models).
</Callout>

This doc will explain the concepts of groups, roles, and capabilities. 

## How do user type and groups relate? [#user-type-groups-relation]

When adding users to New Relic, two important decisions you must make are: 

* What [user type](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type) they should be. The user type is what governs the maximum allowed New Relic capabilities that user can access. 
* What group to place a user in: one of our [default groups](#groups) (**Admin** or **User**) or a custom group. A group is what gives you the ability to a) limit a user's capabilities further than the user type and b) grant users access to specific accounts in a New Relic organization. 

Here's a diagram showing how user type restrictions on what a user can access override any group-related restrictions: 

![Diagram - precedence of capability restrictions](./images/capability-restrictions.png "Diagram - precedence of capability restrictions")
<figcaption>A user's group (and that group's associated role) can restrict their capabilities. The [user type](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type) can also restrict capabilities and that takes precedence over group/role restrictions. For example: a basic user may be assigned to a group that has full New Relic access, but their user type ([basic user](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type)) restrictions override their group permissions.</figcaption>

A basic user's capabilities aren't defined by a specific role. A basic user can best be described as having our [**All product admin** role](#standard-roles) but without access to most of our more curated UI experiences. A core user is similar to a basic user but with a bit more access to some specific UI experiences. [Learn more about user type.](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type)

## What are groups? [#groups]

For users on our New Relic One user model, a "group" is what allows the grouping together and managing of multiple users at the same time. A New Relic user always requires assignment to at least one group to have access to a New Relic account. Here's an explanation of how groups are tied to specific capabilities: 

* A user gets assigned to one or more **group**. 
* With an [access grant](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts), a group is granted access to a specific **role** on a specific account. A role is a set of capabilities.  
* A capability is a specific New Relic ability. Examples of capabilities:
  * The ability to modify APM settings
  * The ability to delete alert conditions

Note that groups are **not** what restrict a user's capabilities: it's the **role** that is assigned to that group that contains the actual capabilities. 

We have two default groups (see below). And Pro and Enterprise organizations can [create custom groups](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/tutorial-add-new-user-groups-roles-new-relic-one-user-model/#group-access).

Users and groups are located within an [authentication domain](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/authentication-domains-saml-sso-scim-more/), which is what controls settings related to how users are added and managed (for example, via SCIM provisioning) and how users log in to New Relic. 

## Default groups [#default-groups]

We have two default groups:

* **User**: This group allows a user to use and configure our observability and monitoring features but **not** perform account-level tasks like managing billing or managing other users. It has access to the [**All product admin**](#standard-roles) role, which gives access to our observability platform tools, but doesn't have the **Organization manager** and **Authentication manager** roles, which give access to the account-level capabilities. 
* **Admin**: has all capabilities, including the organization-level admin abilities. This is the equivalent of having the [standard roles](#standard-roles) of **All product admin**, the **Billing user**, the **Organization manager** and the **Authentication domain manager**. 

To change a user's group, use the [**User management** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles#where).

## Standard (default) roles [#standard-roles]

Roles are sets of [capabilities](#capabilities). We have several "standard roles," which are roles that satisfy some commonly needed use cases. To view roles and their associated capabilities, use the [**Organization and access** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#where). 

<Callout variant="important">
Note that some of our [standard roles](#standard-roles) have hidden, non-exposed capabilities that are not available for selection when creating a custom role. The only standard roles that can be replicated with a custom role are **Standard user** and **Read only**; all others have some hidden capabilities. 
</Callout>

Our standard roles include:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "180px" }}>
        Standard roles
      </th>

      <th style={{ width: "120px" }}>
        Scope
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        **All product admin**
      </td>

      <td>
        Account
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides admin-level access to observability platform features but not organization-level and user management features. In other words, this role includes all New Relic capabilities with the exception of managing users (**Authentication domain manager** role), managing organization/account-structure settings (**Organization manager** role), and managing billing (**Billing user** role).

        Note: the **Standard user** role is essentially the **All product admin** role minus observability feature configuration capabilities. 
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        **Standard user**
      </td>

      <td>
        Account
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides access to observability platform features, but lacks permissions for configuring those features (for example, ability to configure [synthetic monitor secure credentials](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors/store-secure-credentials-scripted-browsers-api-tests)) and lacks organization-level and user management permissions. 

        Note: the **Standard user** role is essentially the **All product admin** role without that role's ability to configure platform features.  
      </td>
    </tr>


    <tr>
      <td>
        **Billing user**
      </td>

      <td>
        Account
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides ability to manage subscriptions and billing setup, and read-only access to the rest of the platform. For organizations with multiple accounts, billing is aggregated in the primary (first-created) account, which is why assigning this role to that primary account grants billing permissions for the entire organization.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        **Organization manager**
      </td>

      <td>
        Organization
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides the ability to manage [organization](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/new-relic-account-structure/-level) settings, including organization structure, name, and preferences. Due to our recent switch to the [New Relic One user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models), this role currently has few abilities but more will be added over time.
        
        For how to grant this role, see [Add user management capability](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/manage-user-groups-roles-access-grants#add-user-managers).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        **Organization read only**
      </td>

      <td>
        Organization
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides the ability to view organization-level settings. For how to grant this role, see [Add user management capability](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/manage-user-groups-roles-access-grants#add-user-managers).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        **Authentication domain manager**
      </td>

      <td>
        Organization
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides ability to add and manage users, and configure [authentication domains](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/configure-authentication-domains-sso) for users on the [New Relic One user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model#user-models). For how to grant this role, see [Add user management capability](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/manage-user-groups-roles-access-grants/#add-user-managers).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        **Authentication domain read only**
      </td>

      <td>
        Organization
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides the ability to view users in your organization and view the configuration of [authentication domains](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/configure-authentication-domains-sso). For how to grant this role, see [Add user management capability](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/manage-user-groups-roles-access-grants/#add-user-managers).
      </td>
    </tr>


    <tr>
      <td>
        **Read only**
      </td>

      <td>
        Account
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides read-only access to the New Relic platform (except for [synthetic monitor secure credentials](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors/store-secure-credentials-scripted-browsers-api-tests)).
      </td>
    </tr>    

    <tr>
      <td>
        **Manage v1 users**
      </td>

      <td>
        Account
      </td>

      <td>
        For New Relic organizations that existed before July 30 2020 and have users on our [original user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model#how-pricing-users-relate), this role lets you manage those "v1" users.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

For more about how you'd assign roles to groups and create custom roles, see the [user management tutorial](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/tutorial-add-new-user-groups-roles-new-relic-one-user-model). 

## Capabilities [#capabilities]

A role, whether one of our [standard roles](#standard-roles) or a custom role, is a set of capabilities. To view roles and their associated capabilities, use the [**Organization and access** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#where).

<Callout variant="important">
Some of our standard roles have hidden capabilities that aren't available for selection when creating a custom role. For details, see [Standard roles](#standard-roles).
</Callout>

![New Relic capabilities UI screenshot](./images/New-Relic-capabilities-UI-screenshot.png "New-Relic-capabilities-UI-screenshot.png")
<figcaption>
A view of the capabilities associated with the [**All product admin** role](#standard-roles). When creating a custom role, you select a custom set of capabilities. Note that the capabilities we expose may change over time: this screenshot was taken in April of 2021. 
</figcaption>

For how to set up roles with custom capabilities, see the [user management tutorial](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/tutorial-add-new-user-groups-roles-new-relic-one-user-model/#roles).

## Manage users

To learn how to add users, assign them to groups, and create custom groups and roles, see [Manage users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/add-manage-users-groups-roles).

## 2020 user model changes [#limitations]

If you'd like to understand how our user model changed in 2020 and what the impacts of that change were, see [User model changes](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model#impacts-user-model).

Commit message:

fix(core users): clarifications to groups, roles

src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/groups-roles-capabilities.mdx, after:

---
title: Groups, roles, and capabilities
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'For the New Relic One user model, explanation of groups, roles, and capabilities.'
redirects:
  - /docs/users-roles
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/users-roles
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/new-relic-one-user-model
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model-understand-user-structure
---

<Callout variant="important">
  This doc applies to users on the [New Relic One user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models). For more on this, see [User model changes](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models).
</Callout>

This doc will explain the concepts of groups, roles, and capabilities. 

## How do user type and groups relate? [#user-type-groups-relation]

When adding users to New Relic, two important decisions you must make are: 

* What [user type](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type) they should be. The user type is what governs the maximum allowed New Relic capabilities that user can access. 
* What group to place a user in: one of our [default groups](#groups) (**Admin** or **User**) or a custom group. A group is what gives you the ability to a) limit a user's capabilities further than the user type and b) grant users access to specific accounts in a New Relic organization. 

Here's a diagram showing how user type restrictions on what a user can access override any group-related restrictions: 

![Diagram - precedence of capability restrictions](./images/capability-restrictions.png "Diagram - precedence of capability restrictions")
<figcaption>A user's group (and that group's associated role) can restrict their capabilities. The [user type](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type) can also restrict capabilities and that takes precedence over group/role restrictions. For example: a basic user may be assigned to a group that has full New Relic access, but their user type ([basic user](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type)) restrictions override their group permissions.</figcaption>

## What are groups? [#groups]

For users on our New Relic One user model, a "group" is what allows the grouping together and managing of multiple users at the same time. A New Relic user always requires assignment to at least one group to have access to a New Relic account. Here's an explanation of how groups are tied to specific capabilities: 

* A user gets assigned to one or more **group**. 
* With an [access grant](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts), a group is granted access to a specific **role** on a specific account. A role is a set of capabilities.  
* A capability is a specific New Relic ability. Examples of capabilities:
  * The ability to modify APM settings
  * The ability to delete alert conditions

Note that groups are **not** what restrict a user's capabilities: it's the **role** that is assigned to that group that contains the actual capabilities. 

We have two default groups (see below). And Pro and Enterprise organizations can [create custom groups](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/tutorial-add-new-user-groups-roles-new-relic-one-user-model/#group-access).

Users and groups are located within an [authentication domain](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/authentication-domains-saml-sso-scim-more/), which is what controls settings related to how users are added and managed (for example, via SCIM provisioning) and how users log in to New Relic. 

## Default groups [#default-groups]

We have two default groups:

* **User**: This group allows a user to use and configure our observability and monitoring features but **not** perform account-level tasks like managing billing or managing other users. It has access to the [**All product admin**](#standard-roles) role, which gives access to our observability platform tools, but doesn't have the **Organization manager** and **Authentication manager** roles, which give access to the account-level capabilities. 
* **Admin**: has all capabilities, including the organization-level admin abilities. This is the equivalent of having the [standard roles](#standard-roles) of **All product admin**, the **Billing user**, the **Organization manager** and the **Authentication domain manager**. 

To change a user's group, use the [**User management** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles#where).

## Standard (default) roles [#standard-roles]

Roles are sets of [capabilities](#capabilities). We have several "standard roles," which are roles that satisfy some commonly needed use cases. To view roles and their associated capabilities, use the [**Organization and access** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#where). 

<Callout variant="important">
Note that some of our [standard roles](#standard-roles) have hidden, non-exposed capabilities that are not available for selection when creating a custom role. The only standard roles that can be replicated with a custom role are **Standard user** and **Read only**; all others have some hidden capabilities. 
</Callout>

Our standard roles include:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "180px" }}>
        Standard roles
      </th>

      <th style={{ width: "120px" }}>
        Scope
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        **All product admin**
      </td>

      <td>
        Account
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides admin-level access to observability platform features but not organization-level and user management features. In other words, this role includes all New Relic capabilities with the exception of managing users (**Authentication domain manager** role), managing organization/account-structure settings (**Organization manager** role), and managing billing (**Billing user** role).

        Note: the **Standard user** role is essentially the **All product admin** role minus observability feature configuration capabilities. 
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        **Standard user**
      </td>

      <td>
        Account
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides access to observability platform features, but lacks permissions for configuring those features (for example, ability to configure [synthetic monitor secure credentials](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors/store-secure-credentials-scripted-browsers-api-tests)) and lacks organization-level and user management permissions. 

        Note: the **Standard user** role is essentially the **All product admin** role without that role's ability to configure platform features.  
      </td>
    </tr>


    <tr>
      <td>
        **Billing user**
      </td>

      <td>
        Account
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides ability to manage subscriptions and billing setup, and read-only access to the rest of the platform. For organizations with multiple accounts, billing is aggregated in the primary (first-created) account, which is why assigning this role to that primary account grants billing permissions for the entire organization.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        **Organization manager**
      </td>

      <td>
        Organization
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides the ability to manage [organization](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/new-relic-account-structure/-level) settings, including organization structure, name, and preferences. Due to our recent switch to the [New Relic One user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models), this role currently has few abilities but more will be added over time.
        
        For how to grant this role, see [Add user management capability](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/manage-user-groups-roles-access-grants#add-user-managers).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        **Organization read only**
      </td>

      <td>
        Organization
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides the ability to view organization-level settings. For how to grant this role, see [Add user management capability](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/manage-user-groups-roles-access-grants#add-user-managers).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        **Authentication domain manager**
      </td>

      <td>
        Organization
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides ability to add and manage users, and configure [authentication domains](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/configure-authentication-domains-sso) for users on the [New Relic One user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model#user-models). For how to grant this role, see [Add user management capability](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/manage-user-groups-roles-access-grants/#add-user-managers).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        **Authentication domain read only**
      </td>

      <td>
        Organization
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides the ability to view users in your organization and view the configuration of [authentication domains](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/configure-authentication-domains-sso). For how to grant this role, see [Add user management capability](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/manage-user-groups-roles-access-grants/#add-user-managers).
      </td>
    </tr>


    <tr>
      <td>
        **Read only**
      </td>

      <td>
        Account
      </td>

      <td>
        Provides read-only access to the New Relic platform (except for [synthetic monitor secure credentials](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors/store-secure-credentials-scripted-browsers-api-tests)).
      </td>
    </tr>    

    <tr>
      <td>
        **Manage v1 users**
      </td>

      <td>
        Account
      </td>

      <td>
        For New Relic organizations that existed before July 30 2020 and have users on our [original user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model#how-pricing-users-relate), this role lets you manage those "v1" users.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

For more about how you'd assign roles to groups and create custom roles, see the [user management tutorial](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/tutorial-add-new-user-groups-roles-new-relic-one-user-model). 

### How do roles relate to user type? [#role-user-type]

User type doesn't directly relate to roles. Some specifics: 

* A basic user's capabilities aren't defined by a specific role. A basic user can best be described as having our [**All product admin** role](#standard-roles) but without access to most of our more curated UI experiences. 
* A core user is similar to a basic user; it just has a few more capabilities. 

[Learn more about user type.](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/user-type)

## Capabilities [#capabilities]

A role, whether one of our [standard roles](#standard-roles) or a custom role, is a set of capabilities. To view roles and their associated capabilities, use the [**Organization and access** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#where).

<Callout variant="important">
Some of our standard roles have hidden capabilities that aren't available for selection when creating a custom role. For details, see [Standard roles](#standard-roles).
</Callout>

![New Relic capabilities UI screenshot](./images/New-Relic-capabilities-UI-screenshot.png "New-Relic-capabilities-UI-screenshot.png")
<figcaption>
A view of the capabilities associated with the [**All product admin** role](#standard-roles). When creating a custom role, you select a custom set of capabilities. Note that the capabilities we expose may change over time: this screenshot was taken in April of 2021. 
</figcaption>

For how to set up roles with custom capabilities, see the [user management tutorial](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/tutorial-add-new-user-groups-roles-new-relic-one-user-model/#roles).

## Manage users

To learn how to add users, assign them to groups, and create custom groups and roles, see [Manage users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/add-manage-users-groups-roles).

## 2020 user model changes [#limitations]

If you'd like to understand how our user model changed in 2020 and what the impacts of that change were, see [User model changes](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model#impacts-user-model).
