src/content/docs/mlops/integrations/aporia-mlops-integration.mdx, before:

---
title: Aporia MLOps integration
tags:
  - Integrations
  - MLOps integrations  
  - Aporia integrations
metaDescription: "Send your machine learning model data from Aporia to New Relic to understand your model's performance."
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/mlops-integrations/aporia-mlops-integration
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/applied-intelligence/mlops-integrations/aporia-mlops-integration
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/mlops/integrations/aporia-mlops-integration
---

Aporia is a fast, easy, and secure way for data science teams to monitor their machine learning models in production. With Aporia, teams can build their own customizable monitors in minutes to receive live alerts for early detection of issues like data drift, unexpected bias, data integrity issues, and performance degradation. Aporia also has an investigation toolbox to enable further investigation and root cause analysis. [Learn more about Aporia](https://www.aporia.com). 

Aporia now offers an integration with New Relic to provide full model management of the [MLOps](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/mlops/get-started/intro-mlops/) infrastructure, with customized dashboards within New Relic that show inferences investigation.

## Integrate Aporia with New Relic [#integrate-aporia] 

Aporia allows you to connect alerts generated by Aporia’s monitors to New Relic’s Incident Intelligence engine and the predictions data in order to create a comprehensive monitoring dashboard in New Relic for your models.

1. **Login into Aporia’s console**: On the navbar on the left, click on **Integrations** and choose **New Relic**.

2. **Login into your New Relic account:** Log into **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)** and click on **Explorer**. On the upper hand corner, on the main navigation menu, click on **+Add more data**.     
    
3. **Click on Aporia:** In the search bar, type **Aporia** or scroll down to the MLOps Integration section and click on the **Aporia icon**.  
      
4. **Get an API key:** Once you click on the Aporia icon, follow step one by clicking **Select** or **Create API key**, under **Prediction data**. You need to create a new API key or use an existing one. 
 
5. **Copy and paste the token in Aporia:** Copy the token by clicking on the **Copy icon** next to the API Key. On Aporia’s dashboard, under the New Relic Integration screen, paste the token under **New Relic insert token** and click **Save**.

6. **Verify the tokens:** In the Aporia dashboard, click on the **Verify tokens** button to verify both tokens are working properly. **Green** check marks or **Red** error marks should appear to indicate the status. 
            
## Monitor your machine learning models with Aporia

Now that you’ve integrated New Relic and Aporia, you can monitor your data using [dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/) with automated charts created by Aporia. 
    
1. **Go to the integration dashboard:** Once you’ve verified your tokens and confirmed the integration is set up correctly, return to the New Relic integration dashboard and click on **See your data**. This will redirect you to an automatically generated dashboard displaying data reported to Aporia in New Relic. 

2. **Analyze Aporia's dashboard.** Aporia’s dashboard contains 6 charts: 
* The **Most active models** chart displays the different models which reported predictions in the selected timeframe.
* The **Most active model versions** chart displays the different versions which reported predictions in the selected timeframe. 
* The **Model inferences** graph displays the number of unique predictions reported for each model and version. 
* The **Average numeric inferences** chart displays the average value numeric predictions reported for each model and version. 
* The **Numeric inferences heatmaps** chart displays a histogram of the numeric predictions reported for each model and version. 
* The **Categorical inferences** charts display the different unique values and their frequencies of categorical predictions reported for each model and version. 

![An image of the Aporia dashboard.](./images/aporia1.png "An image of the Aporia dashboard")
    
3. **Filter data:** Click on the **…** button and click on **Edit**. On the right navbar, under **User as filter**, enable **Filter the current dashboard** and click **Save**.
        
4. **Setup alert notifications:** Once you've created some dashboards, you can get alerted on your data. To create a NRQL alerts condition from a chart, click the chart widget, then click **Create alert condition**. Once you've named and customized your condition, you can add it to an existing policy or create a new one.

![Set up notifications for Aporia.](./images/aporia2.png "Set up notifications for Aporia")

5. **Get notified:** Once you've created an alerts condition, you can choose how you want to be notified. See our docs on [how to set up notification channels](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-notifications/notification-channels-control-where-send-alerts/).
        
6. **Correlate your incidents:** In addition to notifications, you can use Incident Intelligence to correlate your incidents. See our docs on [how to correlate incidents using decisions](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/applied-intelligence/incident-intelligence/change-applied-intelligence-correlation-logic-decisions/).

![Correlate your incidents for Aporia.](./images/aporia3.png "Correlate your incidents for Aporia")

Commit message:

Minor edits/changes
In this PR, I've edited some small grammatical errors and tried making the flow of the UI simpler in writing. I've also clarified a few steps that were not as clear before.

src/content/docs/mlops/integrations/aporia-mlops-integration.mdx, after:

---
title: Aporia MLOps integration
tags:
  - Integrations
  - MLOps integrations  
  - Aporia integrations
metaDescription: "Send your machine learning model data from Aporia to New Relic to understand your model's performance."
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/mlops-integrations/aporia-mlops-integration
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/applied-intelligence/mlops-integrations/aporia-mlops-integration
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/mlops/integrations/aporia-mlops-integration
---

Aporia is a fast, easy, and secure way for data science teams to monitor their machine learning models in production. With Aporia, teams can build their own customizable monitors in minutes to receive live alerts for early detection of issues like data drift, unexpected bias, data integrity issues, and performance degradation. Aporia also has an investigation toolbox to enable further investigation and root cause analysis. [Learn more about Aporia](https://www.aporia.com). 

Aporia now offers an integration with New Relic to provide full model management of the [MLOps](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/mlops/get-started/intro-mlops/) infrastructure, with customized dashboards within New Relic that show inferences investigation.

## Integrate Aporia with New Relic [#integrate-aporia] 

Aporia allows you to connect alerts generated by Aporia’s monitors to New Relic’s Incident Intelligence engine and the predictions data in order to create a comprehensive monitoring dashboard in New Relic for your models.

1. **Login into Aporia’s console**: On the navbar on the left, click on **Integrations** and choose **New Relic**.

2. **Login into your New Relic account:** Log into **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)** and click on **Explorer**. On the upper hand corner, on the main navigation menu, click on **+Add more data**.     
    
3. **Click on Aporia:** In the search bar, type **Aporia** or scroll down to the MLOps Integration section and click on the **Aporia icon**.

4. **Select your account ID:** Select the account ID you want Aporia to integrate with. 
      
5. **Get an API key:** Once you click on the Aporia icon, follow step one by clicking **Select** or **Create API key**, under **Prediction data**. You need to create a new API key or use an existing one. 

6. **Get an Auth Token:** Optionally, you can also send metric alerts from Aporia to New Relic for intelligent correlation. To do this, copy the auth token by clicking on the **Copy icon** under **Model quality metric alerts**.
 
7. **Paste the key and token in Aporia:** Now go to Aporia’s dashboard and under the New Relic Integration screen and paste the key under **New Relic insert token**. If you also copied the Auth Token, you can paste this key under **New Relic Incident Intelligence Token**. Once pasted, click **Save**.

8. **Verify the tokens:** In the Aporia dashboard, click on the **Verify tokens** button to verify both the key and token are working properly. **Green** check marks or **Red** error marks should appear to indicate the status. 
            
## Monitor your machine learning models with Aporia

Now that you’ve integrated New Relic and Aporia, you can monitor your data using [dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/) with automated charts created by Aporia. 
    
1. **Go to the integration dashboard:** Once you’ve verified your tokens and confirmed the integration is set up correctly, return to the New Relic integration dashboard and click on **See your data**. This will redirect you to an automatically generated dashboard displaying data reported to Aporia in New Relic. 

2. **Analyze Aporia's dashboard.** Aporia’s dashboard populated in New Relic contains 6 charts: 
* The **Most active models** chart displays the different models which reported predictions in the selected timeframe.
* The **Most active model versions** chart displays the different versions which reported predictions in the selected timeframe. 
* The **Model inferences** graph displays the number of unique predictions reported for each model and version. 
* The **Average numeric inferences** chart displays the average value numeric predictions reported for each model and version. 
* The **Numeric inferences heatmaps** chart displays a histogram of the numeric predictions reported for each model and version. 
* The **Categorical inferences** charts display the different unique values and their frequencies of categorical predictions reported for each model and version. 

![An image of the Aporia dashboard.](./images/aporia1.png "An image of the Aporia dashboard")
    
3. **Filter data:** Click on the **…** button and click on **Edit**. On the right navbar, under **User as filter**, enable **Filter the current dashboard** and click **Save**.
        
4. **Setup alert notifications:** Once you've created some dashboards, you can get alerted on your data. To create a NRQL alerts condition from a chart, click the chart widget, then click **Create alert condition**. Once you've named and customized your condition, you can add it to an existing policy or create a new one.

![Set up notifications for Aporia.](./images/aporia2.png "Set up notifications for Aporia")

5. **Get notified:** Once you've created an alerts condition, you can choose how you want to be notified. See our docs on [how to set up notification channels](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-notifications/notification-channels-control-where-send-alerts/).
        
6. **Correlate your incidents:** In addition to notifications, you can use Incident Intelligence to correlate your incidents. See our docs on [how to correlate incidents using decisions](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/applied-intelligence/incident-intelligence/change-applied-intelligence-correlation-logic-decisions/).

![Correlate your incidents for Aporia.](./images/aporia3.png "Correlate your incidents for Aporia")
