src/content/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/advanced-configuration/monitor-services/tutorial-monitor-redis-running-kubernetes.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Tutorial: Monitor Redis running on Kubernetes'
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Kubernetes integration
  - Link apps and services
metaDescription: An example of how to set up monitoring of a service running on Kubernetes.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/link-apps-services/tutorial-monitor-redis-running-kubernetes
  - /docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/link-your-applications/example-monitoring-service-redis-running-kubernetes
  - /docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/link-your-applications/example-how-monitor-service-redis-running-kubernetes
  - /docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/link-your-applications/monitor-service-running-kubernetes-tutorial
  - /docs/monitor-service-running-kubernetes-tutorial
  - /docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/advanced-configuration/monitor-services/tutorial-monitor-redis-running-kubernetes
  - /docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/link-apps-services/tutorial-monitor-redis-running-kubernetes
---

If you have a service running on Kubernetes, and it's a [service we support](/docs/monitor-service-running-kubernetes#integration-configs), you can enable monitoring of that service by adding a configuration section for that integration to the Kubernetes integration's config.

This tutorial shows how to enable monitoring for a Redis service running on the Kubernetes PHP Guestbook. For the general procedure, see [Monitor a Kubernetes-running service](/docs/monitor-service-running-kubernetes).

## What you need [#requirements]

* See the [general requirements for this feature](/docs/monitor-service-running-kubernetes#requirements), including supported services.
* The `kubectl` command-line tool must be configured to communicate with your cluster. If you don't have a cluster, you can create one using [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/minikube).

## Step 1: Set up an example Redis application [#set-up-redis]

This tutorial builds on the Kubernetes tutorial [Deploying a PHP Guestbook application with Redis](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/stateless-application/guestbook/). Skip the Kubernetes tutorial and run the following command to set up the application needed for our tutorial:

```
kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/examples/master/guestbook/all-in-one/guestbook-all-in-one.yaml
```

If you'd like to first complete the [Kubernetes tutorial](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/stateless-application/guestbook/), follow their tutorial instructions but do **not** follow the instructions in the **Cleaning up** section.

## Step 2: Enable monitoring of Redis instances [#monitor-redis]

The PHP Guestbook application has three Redis instances: one master and two replica instances. Each instance is tagged with a label where `app=redis`. For this example, we're using our [Redis monitoring integration](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/redis-monitoring-integration). It can monitor both master and replica instances of Redis, so we don’t have to distinguish between them.

1. In the `values-newrelic.yaml` YAML file for our [helm chart](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/installation/install-kubernetes-integration-using-helm) you need to update the `newrelic-infrastructure.integrations` section. From [the list of integration configs](/docs/monitor-service-running-kubernetes#integration-configs), get the Redis integration YAML and add it to the Kubernetes config. The Redis YAML is highlighted below.

  ```yaml
  newrelic-infrastructure:
    integrations:
  <mark>
      redis-config.yml:
        # Run auto discovery to find pods with label "app=redis"
        # https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/integrations/host-integrations/installation/container-auto-discovery
        discovery:
          command:
            # Run discovery for Kubernetes. Use the following optional arguments:
            # --namespaces: Comma separated list of namespaces to discover pods on
            # --tls: Use secure (TLS) connection
            # --port: Port used to connect to the kubelet. Default is 10255
            exec: /var/db/newrelic-infra/nri-discovery-kubernetes --tls --port 10250
            match:
              label.app: redis
        integrations:
          - name: nri-redis
            env:
              # using the discovered IP as the hostname address
              HOSTNAME: ${discovery.ip}
              PORT: 6379
              KEYS: '{"0":["<KEY_1>"],"1":["<KEY_2>"]}'
              labels:
                env: production
  </mark>
  ```

2. Deploy the updated service:

   ```shell
   kubectl create -f newrelic-infrastructure-k8s-latest.yaml
   ```

   You should be able to see the following in the logs for the pod `newrelic-infra`:

   ```
   time="2019-12-23T17:37:07Z" level=info msg="Integration health check starting" instance=redis-metrics integration=com.newrelic.redis prefix=integration/com.newrelic.redis working-dir=/var/db/newrelic-infra/newrelic-integrations
   time="2019-12-23T17:37:07Z" level=info msg="Integration health check finished with success" instance=redis-metrics integration=com.newrelic.redis prefix=integration/com.newrelic.redis working-dir=/var/db/newrelic-infra/newrelic-integrations
   ```

If there are no errors, you should see Redis data in the Infrastructure UI. To find the Redis dashboards, go to [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com) **> Infrastructure > Third party services**, and select the **Redis** dashboard.

For the general procedure of how to monitor services running on Kubernetes, including more detail about how configuration works, see [Monitor a Kubernetes-running service](/docs/monitor-service-running-kubernetes).

Commit message:

k8s/services: clarify tutorial applies to v3 on helm and link other options

src/content/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/advanced-configuration/monitor-services/tutorial-monitor-redis-running-kubernetes.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Tutorial: Monitor Redis running on Kubernetes'
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Kubernetes integration
  - Link apps and services
metaDescription: An example of how to set up monitoring of a service running on Kubernetes.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/link-apps-services/tutorial-monitor-redis-running-kubernetes
  - /docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/link-your-applications/example-monitoring-service-redis-running-kubernetes
  - /docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/link-your-applications/example-how-monitor-service-redis-running-kubernetes
  - /docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/link-your-applications/monitor-service-running-kubernetes-tutorial
  - /docs/monitor-service-running-kubernetes-tutorial
  - /docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/advanced-configuration/monitor-services/tutorial-monitor-redis-running-kubernetes
  - /docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/link-apps-services/tutorial-monitor-redis-running-kubernetes
---

<Callout variant="tip">
  This tutorial applies to the Kubernetes Integration v3 [installed using Helm](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/installation/install-kubernetes-integration-using-helm). For instructions on how to do this on v2 using helm please check [this section](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/advanced-configuration/monitor-services/monitor-services-running-kubernetes#config-details#configure-values-v2). To check how to configure services on top of plain manifest, check out [this other page](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/advanced-configuration/monitor-services/monitor-services-running-kubernetes#config-details).
</Callout>

If you have a service running on Kubernetes, and it's a [service we support](/docs/monitor-service-running-kubernetes#integration-configs), you can enable monitoring of that service by adding a configuration section for that integration to the Kubernetes integration's config.

This tutorial shows how to enable monitoring for a Redis service running on the Kubernetes PHP Guestbook. For the general procedure, see [Monitor a Kubernetes-running service](/docs/monitor-service-running-kubernetes).

## What you need [#requirements]

* See the [general requirements for this feature](/docs/monitor-service-running-kubernetes#requirements), including supported services.
* The `kubectl` command-line tool must be configured to communicate with your cluster. If you don't have a cluster, you can create one using [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/minikube).

## Step 1: Set up an example Redis application [#set-up-redis]

This tutorial builds on the Kubernetes tutorial [Deploying a PHP Guestbook application with Redis](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/stateless-application/guestbook/). Skip the Kubernetes tutorial and run the following command to set up the application needed for our tutorial:

```shell
kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/examples/master/guestbook/all-in-one/guestbook-all-in-one.yaml
```

If you'd like to first complete the [Kubernetes tutorial](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/stateless-application/guestbook/), follow their tutorial instructions but do **not** follow the instructions in the **Cleaning up** section.

## Step 2: Enable monitoring of Redis instances [#monitor-redis]

The PHP Guestbook application has three Redis instances: one master and two replica instances. Each instance is tagged with a label where `app=redis`. For this example, we're using our [Redis monitoring integration](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/redis-monitoring-integration). It can monitor both master and replica instances of Redis, so we don’t have to distinguish between them.

1. In the `values-newrelic.yaml` YAML file for our [helm chart](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/installation/install-kubernetes-integration-using-helm) you need to update the `newrelic-infrastructure.integrations` section. From [the list of integration configs](/docs/monitor-service-running-kubernetes#integration-configs), get the Redis integration YAML and add it to the Kubernetes config. The Redis-specific configuration is contained under the `redis-config.yml:` key:

  ```yaml
  newrelic-infrastructure:
    integrations:
      redis-config.yml:
        # Run auto discovery to find pods with label "app=redis"
        # https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/integrations/host-integrations/installation/container-auto-discovery
        discovery:
          command:
            # Run discovery for Kubernetes. Use the following optional arguments:
            # --namespaces: Comma separated list of namespaces to discover pods on
            # --tls: Use secure (TLS) connection
            # --port: Port used to connect to the kubelet. Default is 10255
            exec: /var/db/newrelic-infra/nri-discovery-kubernetes --tls --port 10250
            match:
              label.app: redis
        integrations:
          - name: nri-redis
            env:
              # using the discovered IP as the hostname address
              HOSTNAME: ${discovery.ip}
              PORT: 6379
              KEYS: '{"0":["<KEY_1>"],"1":["<KEY_2>"]}'
              labels:
                env: production
  ```

2. Deploy the updated service:

  ```shell
  helm upgrade --install newrelic newrelic/nri-bundle \
  --namespace newrelic --create-namespace \
  -f values-newrelic.yaml \
  --devel
  ```

  You should be able to see the following in the logs for the `nrk8s-kubelet` pod that is scheduled in the same node as the service you want to monitor:

  ```shell
  kubectl logs -n newrelic newrelic-nrk8s-kubelet-xxxxx agent
  ```

  ```
  time="2019-12-23T17:37:07Z" level=info msg="Integration health check starting" instance=redis-metrics integration=com.newrelic.redis prefix=integration/com.newrelic.redis working-dir=/var/db/newrelic-infra/newrelic-integrations
  time="2019-12-23T17:37:07Z" level=info msg="Integration health check finished with success" instance=redis-metrics integration=com.newrelic.redis prefix=integration/com.newrelic.redis working-dir=/var/db/newrelic-infra/newrelic-integrations
  ```

If there are no errors, you should see Redis data in the Infrastructure UI. To find the Redis dashboards, go to [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com) **> Infrastructure > Third party services**, and select the **Redis** dashboard.

For the general procedure of how to monitor services running on Kubernetes, including more detail about how configuration works, see [Monitor a Kubernetes-running service](/docs/monitor-service-running-kubernetes).
