src/content/docs/using-new-relic/cross-product-functions/install-configure/networks.mdx, before:

---
title: Networks
tags:
  - Using New Relic
  - Cross-product functions
  - Install and configure
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'Network connections used by New Relic for sending and receiving data: IP addresses, domains, ports, endpoints. TLS is required for all domains.'
redirects:
  - /docs/general/what-are-the-networks-new-relic-uses
  - /docs/site/networks
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/getting-started/networks
---

**This list is current. Last updated September 28, 2021.**

This is a list of the networks, IP addresses, domains, ports, and endpoints used by API clients or agents to communicate with New Relic. [TLS is required for all domains.](#tls)

Your browser must be able to communicate with a number of domains for New Relic One to work properly. See [User-facing domains](#user-facing-domains) for the list of domains that should be allowed through your firewall.

For information on our FedRAMP endpoints see our [FedRAMP endpoints](/docs/security/security-privacy/compliance/fedramp-compliant-endpoints) documentation. 

## TLS encryption [#tls]

To ensure data security for our customers and to be in compliance with [FedRAMP](https://marketplace.fedramp.gov/#/product/new-relic?sort=productName&productNameSearch=new%20relic) and other standards for [data encryption](/docs/security/new-relic-security/compliance/data-encryption), Transport Layer Security (TLS) is required for all domains. Our preferred protocol for all domains is TLS 1.2. For more information, see New Relic's [Explorers Hub post about TLS 1.2](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/january-tls-updates-apis-and-browser-apm/88869).

In addition, TLS 1.2 is **required** for most domains, except:

* APM agent connections
* Browser agent connections
* Event API

For future updates to required and supported protocol versions, follow the [`Security Notifications` tag in New Relic's Explorers Hub](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/security-notifications/45862).

## User-facing domains [#user-facing-domains]

Update your allow list to ensure New Relic can communicate with a number of integral domains (listed below). Blocking domains can cause issues with individual product features or prevent pages from loading altogether.

This list doesn't cover domains that New Relic connects to that can be blocked without affecting your usage of the product. It also doesn't cover Nerdpacks or other features that communicate with external services that have additional domain requirements.

If your organization uses a firewall that restricts outbound traffic, ensure that the following domains are added to the allow list:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        Domain
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        *.newrelic.com
      </td>

      <td>
        New Relic One and supporting services
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        *.nr-assets.net
      </td>

      <td>
        Static New Relic assets
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        *.nr-ext.net
      </td>

      <td>
        New Relic One Nerdpacks and assets
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        *.amazonaws.com
      </td>

      <td>
        New Relic One catalog assets behind AWS S3
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        *.cloudfront.net
      </td>

      <td>
        Static New Relic assets behind AWS CloudFront CDN
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        secure.gravatar.com
      </td>

      <td>
        Support for Gravatar avatars
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        fonts.googleapis.com
      </td>

      <td>
        Support for Google Fonts
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        fonts.gstatic.com
      </td>

      <td>
        Support for Google Fonts
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        www.google.com
      </td>

      <td>
        Support for reCAPTCHA
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        www.gstatic.com
      </td>

      <td>
        Support for reCAPTCHA
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        *.nr-data.net
      </td>
      <td>
        OpenTelemetry and Pixie
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## APM agents [#agents]

To enhance network performance and [data security](/docs/security/new-relic-security/data-privacy/new-relic-security-protecting-your-data-content), New Relic uses a CDN and DDoS prevention service with a large IP range. New Relic agents require your firewall to allow outgoing connections to the following networks and ports.

[TLS is required for all domains.](#tls) Use the IP connections for account data in the US or [European Union region](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-eu-region-data-center) as appropriate:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "150px" }}>
        IP connections
      </th>

      <th>
        APM data
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Networks
      </td>

      <td>
        US region accounts:

        * 162.247.240.0/22

        EU region accounts:

        * 185.221.84.0/22
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Ports
      </td>

      <td>
        US region accounts:

        * Default: TCP 443 [(recommended)](#port-443)
        * TCP 80

        EU region accounts:

        * Default: TCP 443 [(recommended)](#port-443)
        * TCP 80
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Endpoints
      </td>

      <td>
        US region accounts:

        * `collector*.newrelic.com`

        EU region accounts:

        * `collector*.eu01.nr-data.net:443` [(recommended)](#port-443)
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Recommendation:** Use port 443, a secured channel for encrypted HTTPS traffic. Some New Relic agents also offer port 80, an unsecured channel open to all HTTP traffic.

While some agents can be configured to use both port 80 and port 443, we recommend that you choose the port 443 (default). If you have an existing configuration that uses port 80, you can update it to use port 443, the default New Relic connection.

## Agent downloads [#agent-download]

[TLS is required for all domains.](#tls) Service for `download.newrelic.com` is provided through Fastly and is subject to change without warning. For the most current list of public IP addresses for New Relic agent downloads, see [api.fastly.com/public-ip-list](https://api.fastly.com/public-ip-list).

## Infrastructure agents [#infrastructure]

In order to report data to New Relic, our [infrastructure monitoring](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/getting-started/welcome-new-relic-infrastructure) needs outbound access to these domains, networks, and ports. [TLS is required for all domains.](#tls)

Use the IP connections for account data in the US or [European Union region](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-eu-region-data-center) as appropriate:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "150px" }}>
        IP connections
      </th>

      <th>
        Infrastructure data
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Domains
      </td>

      <td>
        * `infra-api.newrelic.com`: Required to submit events, metrics, and inventory data.
        * `identity-api.newrelic.com`: Required for entity registration (for example, a `host` entity).
        * `infrastructure-command-api.newrelic.com`: Required to determine feature flags. Also used for gradual rollout of new capabilities.
        * `log-api.newrelic.com`: Required to submit logs to a US datacenter. 
        * `log-api.eu.newrelic.com`: Required to submit logs to an EU datacenter. 
        * `metric-api.newrelic.com`: Required to submit dimensional metrics.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Networks
      </td>

      <td>
        For US region accounts:

        * 162.247.240.0/22

        For EU region accounts:

        * 185.221.84.0/22
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Port
      </td>

      <td>
        * 443
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Domains + Port
      </td>

      <td>
        For US region accounts:

        * `infra-api.newrelic.com:443`
        * `identity-api.newrelic.com:443`
        * `infrastructure-command-api.newrelic.com:443`
        * `log-api.newrelic.com:443`
        * `metric-api.newrelic.com:443`

        For EU region accounts:

        * `infra-api.eu.newrelic.com:443`
        * `identity-api.eu.newrelic.com:443`
        * `infrastructure-command-api.eu.newrelic.com:443`
        * `log-api.eu.newrelic.com:443`
        * `metric-api.eu.newrelic.com:443`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Proxy
      </td>

      <td>
        If your system needs a proxy to connect to this domain, use the [Infrastructure `proxy` setting](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/configuration/configure-infrastructure-agent#proxy).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Browser domains [#browser-specific]

In addition to the [IP addresses for APM agents](#agents), applications monitored by our [browser agents](/docs/browser) use outgoing connections to the following domains. [TLS is required for all domains.](#tls)

Use the IP connections for account data in the US or [European Union region](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-eu-region-data-center) as appropriate:

For US region accounts:

* `bam.nr-data.net`
* `js-agent.newrelic.com`

For EU region accounts:

* `eu01.nr-data.net`
* `bam.eu01.nr-data.net`

For more information about CDN access for the `js-agent.newrelic.com` file to the domain `bam.nr-data.net` or to one of the New Relic beacons, see [Security for browser monitoring](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/performance-quality/security-new-relic-browser).

## Mobile domains [#mobile-specific]

In addition to the [IP addresses for APM agents](#agents), applications monitored by our [mobile agents](/docs/mobile-monitoring) use outgoing connections to the following domains. [TLS is required for all domains.](#tls)

Use the IP connections for account data in the US or [European Union region](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-eu-region-data-center) as appropriate:

For US region accounts:

* `mobile-collector.newrelic.com`
* `mobile-crash.newrelic.com`
* `mobile-symbol-upload.newrelic.com`

For EU region accounts:

* `mobile-collector.eu01.nr-data.net`
* `mobile-crash.eu01.nr-data.net`
* `mobile-symbol-upload.eu01.nr-data.net`

## Synthetic monitor public locations [#synthetics-public]

To configure your firewall to allow synthetic monitors to access your monitored URL, use [Synthetic public minion IPs](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/synthetics-public-minion-ips). [TLS is required for all domains.](#tls)

## Synthetic monitor private locations [#synthetics-private]

Synthetic private minions report to a specific endpoint based on region. Configure your firewall to allow the private minion to access the endpoint or the static IP addresses associated with the endpoint. These IP addresses may change in the future.

[TLS is required for all domains.](#tls) Use the IP connections for account data in the US or [European Union region](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-eu-region-data-center) as appropriate:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "150px" }}>
        IP connections
      </th>

      <th>
        Synthetics private location data
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Endpoint
      </td>

      <td>
        For US region accounts:

        * `https://synthetics-horde.nr-data.net/`

        For EU region accounts:

        * `https://synthetics-horde.eu01.nr-data.net/`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        IP addresses
      </td>

      <td>
        For US region accounts:

        * 13.248.153.51
        * 76.223.21.185

        For EU region accounts:

        * 185.221.86.57
        * 185.221.86.25
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Alerts webhooks, api.newrelic.com, cloud integrations, and ticketing integrations [#webhooks]

Endpoints that use `api.newrelic.com` (such as our [GraphQL API for NerdGraph](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph)) and our New Relic-generated [webhooks for alert policies](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/managing-notification-channels/notification-channels-controlling-where-send-alerts#webhook) use an IP address from designated network blocks for the US or [European Union region](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-eu-region-data-center). [TLS is required](#tls) for all addresses in these blocks.

Network blocks for US region accounts:

* 162.247.240.0/22

Network blocks for EU region accounts:

* 158.177.65.64/29
* 159.122.103.184/29
* 161.156.125.32/28

These network blocks also apply to third-party [ticketing integrations](/docs/using-new-relic/user-interface-functions/share-your-data/ticketing-integrations) and [New Relic cloud integrations](/docs/integrations/infrastructure-integrations/get-started/introduction-infrastructure-integrations/#cloud-integrations).

## Pixie integration [#pixie-integration]

The [Pixie integration](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-pixie-integration) runs in your Kubernetes cluster and pulls a set of curated observability data from Pixie to send it to New Relic using the OpenTelemetry line protocol.

The Pixie integration requires outbound network access to the following:

* work.withpixie.ai:443
* otlp.nr-data.net:4317 (US region accounts)
* otlp.eu01.nr-data.net:4317 (EU region accounts)

## OpenTelemetry

New Relic supports the native OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) for exporting telemetry data. This allows you to use the vendor neutral components developed by the OpenTelemetry community to export your data to New Relic.

To export OTLP data to New Relic, configure the OTLP exporter to add a header ( api-key ) whose value is your account license key.
And, based on your region, configure the endpoint where the exporter sends data to New Relic. See the [OpenTelemetry quick start](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start/) for more information.

* otlp.nr-data.net:4317 (US region accounts)
* otlp.eu01.nr-data.net:4317 (EU region accounts)

Network blocks for US region accounts:

* 162.247.240.0/22

Network blocks for EU region accounts:

* 185.221.84.0/22

Commit message:

feat(Networks firewall): Fixed for DOC-7534
Customer wanted specific procedures on how to configure firewall. Support recommended these general guidelines rather than specific steps because it varies so much.

src/content/docs/using-new-relic/cross-product-functions/install-configure/networks.mdx, after:

---
title: Networks
tags:
  - Using New Relic
  - Cross-product functions
  - Install and configure
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'Network connections used by New Relic for sending and receiving data: IP addresses, domains, ports, endpoints. TLS is required for all domains.'
redirects:
  - /docs/general/what-are-the-networks-new-relic-uses
  - /docs/site/networks
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/getting-started/networks
---

**This list is current. Last updated September 28, 2021.**

This is a list of the networks, IP addresses, domains, ports, and endpoints used by API clients or agents to communicate with New Relic. [TLS is required for all domains.](#tls)

Your browser must be able to communicate with a number of domains for New Relic One to work properly. See [User-facing domains](#user-facing-domains) for the list of domains to be allowed through your firewall.

For information on our FedRAMP endpoints, see our [FedRAMP endpoints](/docs/security/security-privacy/compliance/fedramp-compliant-endpoints) documentation. 

## TLS encryption [#tls]

To ensure data security for our customers and to be in compliance with [FedRAMP](https://marketplace.fedramp.gov/#/product/new-relic?sort=productName&productNameSearch=new%20relic) and other standards for [data encryption](/docs/security/new-relic-security/compliance/data-encryption), Transport Layer Security (TLS) is required for all domains. Our preferred protocol for all domains is TLS 1.2. For more information, see New Relic's [Explorers Hub post about TLS 1.2](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/january-tls-updates-apis-and-browser-apm/88869).

In addition, TLS 1.2 is **required** for most domains, except:

* APM agent connections
* Browser agent connections
* Event API

For future updates to required and supported protocol versions, follow the [`Security Notifications` tag in New Relic's Explorers Hub](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/security-notifications/45862).

## User-facing domains [#user-facing-domains]

Update your allow list to ensure New Relic can communicate with a number of integral domains that are listed in this section. Blocking domains can cause issues with individual product features or prevent pages from loading altogether.

This list doesn't cover domains that New Relic connects to that can be blocked without affecting your usage of the product. It also doesn't cover Nerdpacks or other features that communicate with external services that have additional domain requirements.

If your organization uses a firewall that restricts outbound traffic, follow specific procedures for the operating system and the firewall software you use to add the following domains to the allow list.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        Domain
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        *.newrelic.com
      </td>

      <td>
        New Relic One and supporting services
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        *.nr-assets.net
      </td>

      <td>
        Static New Relic assets
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        *.nr-ext.net
      </td>

      <td>
        New Relic One Nerdpacks and assets
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        *.amazonaws.com
      </td>

      <td>
        New Relic One catalog assets behind AWS S3
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        *.cloudfront.net
      </td>

      <td>
        Static New Relic assets behind AWS CloudFront CDN
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        secure.gravatar.com
      </td>

      <td>
        Support for Gravatar avatars
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        fonts.googleapis.com
      </td>

      <td>
        Support for Google Fonts
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        fonts.gstatic.com
      </td>

      <td>
        Support for Google Fonts
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        www.google.com
      </td>

      <td>
        Support for reCAPTCHA
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        www.gstatic.com
      </td>

      <td>
        Support for reCAPTCHA
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        *.nr-data.net
      </td>
      <td>
        OpenTelemetry and Pixie
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## APM agents [#agents]

To enhance network performance and [data security](/docs/security/new-relic-security/data-privacy/new-relic-security-protecting-your-data-content), New Relic uses a CDN and DDoS prevention service with a large IP range. New Relic agents require your firewall to allow outgoing connections to the following networks and ports. Follow specific procedures for the operating system and the firewall software you use to add the following IP connections to the allow list.

[TLS is required for all domains.](#tls) Use the IP connections for account data in the US or [European Union region](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-eu-region-data-center) as appropriate:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "150px" }}>
        IP connections
      </th>

      <th>
        APM data
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Networks
      </td>

      <td>
        US region accounts:

        * 162.247.240.0/22

        EU region accounts:

        * 185.221.84.0/22
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Ports
      </td>

      <td>
        US region accounts:

        * Default: TCP 443 [(recommended)](#port-443)
        * TCP 80

        EU region accounts:

        * Default: TCP 443 [(recommended)](#port-443)
        * TCP 80
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Endpoints
      </td>

      <td>
        US region accounts:

        * `collector*.newrelic.com`

        EU region accounts:

        * `collector*.eu01.nr-data.net:443` [(recommended)](#port-443)
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Port 443 recommended [#port-443]

**Recommendation:** Use port 443, a secured channel for encrypted HTTPS traffic. Some New Relic agents also offer port 80, an unsecured channel open to all HTTP traffic.

While some agents can be configured to use both port 80 and port 443, we recommend that you choose the port 443 (default). If you have an existing configuration that uses port 80, you can update it to use port 443, the default New Relic connection.

## Agent downloads [#agent-download]

[TLS is required for all domains.](#tls) Service for `download.newrelic.com` is provided through Fastly and is subject to change without warning. For the most current list of public IP addresses for New Relic agent downloads, see [api.fastly.com/public-ip-list](https://api.fastly.com/public-ip-list).

## Infrastructure agents [#infrastructure]

In order to report data to New Relic, our [infrastructure monitoring](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/getting-started/welcome-new-relic-infrastructure) needs outbound access to these domains, networks, and ports. [TLS is required for all domains.](#tls)

Use the IP connections for account data in the US or [European Union region](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-eu-region-data-center) as appropriate:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "150px" }}>
        IP connections
      </th>

      <th>
        Infrastructure data
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Domains
      </td>

      <td>
        * `infra-api.newrelic.com`: Required to submit events, metrics, and inventory data.
        * `identity-api.newrelic.com`: Required for entity registration (for example, a `host` entity).
        * `infrastructure-command-api.newrelic.com`: Required to determine feature flags. Also used for gradual rollout of new capabilities.
        * `log-api.newrelic.com`: Required to submit logs to a US datacenter. 
        * `log-api.eu.newrelic.com`: Required to submit logs to an EU datacenter. 
        * `metric-api.newrelic.com`: Required to submit dimensional metrics.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Networks
      </td>

      <td>
        For US region accounts:

        * 162.247.240.0/22

        For EU region accounts:

        * 185.221.84.0/22
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Port
      </td>

      <td>
        * 443
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Domains + Port
      </td>

      <td>
        For US region accounts:

        * `infra-api.newrelic.com:443`
        * `identity-api.newrelic.com:443`
        * `infrastructure-command-api.newrelic.com:443`
        * `log-api.newrelic.com:443`
        * `metric-api.newrelic.com:443`

        For EU region accounts:

        * `infra-api.eu.newrelic.com:443`
        * `identity-api.eu.newrelic.com:443`
        * `infrastructure-command-api.eu.newrelic.com:443`
        * `log-api.eu.newrelic.com:443`
        * `metric-api.eu.newrelic.com:443`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Proxy
      </td>

      <td>
        If your system needs a proxy to connect to this domain, use the [Infrastructure `proxy` setting](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/configuration/configure-infrastructure-agent#proxy).
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Browser domains [#browser-specific]

In addition to the [IP addresses for APM agents](#agents), applications monitored by our [browser agents](/docs/browser) use outgoing connections to the following domains. [TLS is required for all domains.](#tls)

Use the IP connections for account data in the US or [European Union region](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-eu-region-data-center) as appropriate:

For US region accounts:

* `bam.nr-data.net`
* `js-agent.newrelic.com`

For EU region accounts:

* `eu01.nr-data.net`
* `bam.eu01.nr-data.net`

For more information about CDN access for the `js-agent.newrelic.com` file to the domain `bam.nr-data.net` or to one of the New Relic beacons, see [Security for browser monitoring](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/performance-quality/security-new-relic-browser).

## Mobile domains [#mobile-specific]

In addition to the [IP addresses for APM agents](#agents), applications monitored by our [mobile agents](/docs/mobile-monitoring) use outgoing connections to the following domains. [TLS is required for all domains.](#tls)

Use the IP connections for account data in the US or [European Union region](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-eu-region-data-center) as appropriate:

For US region accounts:

* `mobile-collector.newrelic.com`
* `mobile-crash.newrelic.com`
* `mobile-symbol-upload.newrelic.com`

For EU region accounts:

* `mobile-collector.eu01.nr-data.net`
* `mobile-crash.eu01.nr-data.net`
* `mobile-symbol-upload.eu01.nr-data.net`

## Synthetic monitor public locations [#synthetics-public]

To configure your firewall to allow synthetic monitors to access your monitored URL, use [Synthetic public minion IPs](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/synthetics-public-minion-ips). [TLS is required for all domains.](#tls)

## Synthetic monitor private locations [#synthetics-private]

Synthetic private minions report to a specific endpoint based on region. Follow specific procedures for the operating system and the firewall software you use to allow the private minion to access the endpoint or the static IP addresses associated with the endpoint. These IP addresses may change in the future.

[TLS is required for all domains.](#tls) Use the IP connections for account data in the US or [European Union region](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-eu-region-data-center) as appropriate:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "150px" }}>
        IP connections
      </th>

      <th>
        Synthetics private location data
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Endpoint
      </td>

      <td>
        For US region accounts:

        * `https://synthetics-horde.nr-data.net/`

        For EU region accounts:

        * `https://synthetics-horde.eu01.nr-data.net/`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        IP addresses
      </td>

      <td>
        For US region accounts:

        * 13.248.153.51
        * 76.223.21.185

        For EU region accounts:

        * 185.221.86.57
        * 185.221.86.25
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Alerts webhooks, api.newrelic.com, cloud integrations, and ticketing integrations [#webhooks]

Endpoints that use `api.newrelic.com` (such as our [GraphQL API for NerdGraph](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph)) and our New Relic-generated [webhooks for alert policies](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/managing-notification-channels/notification-channels-controlling-where-send-alerts#webhook) use an IP address from designated network blocks for the US or [European Union region](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-eu-region-data-center). [TLS is required](#tls) for all addresses in these blocks.

Network blocks for US region accounts:

* 162.247.240.0/22

Network blocks for EU region accounts:

* 158.177.65.64/29
* 159.122.103.184/29
* 161.156.125.32/28

These network blocks also apply to third-party [ticketing integrations](/docs/using-new-relic/user-interface-functions/share-your-data/ticketing-integrations) and [New Relic cloud integrations](/docs/integrations/infrastructure-integrations/get-started/introduction-infrastructure-integrations/#cloud-integrations).

## Pixie integration [#pixie-integration]

The [Pixie integration](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-pixie-integration) runs in your Kubernetes cluster and pulls a set of curated observability data from Pixie to send it to New Relic using the OpenTelemetry line protocol.

The Pixie integration requires outbound network access to the following:

* work.withpixie.ai:443
* otlp.nr-data.net:4317 (US region accounts)
* otlp.eu01.nr-data.net:4317 (EU region accounts)

## OpenTelemetry

New Relic supports the native OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) for exporting telemetry data. This allows you to use the vendor neutral components developed by the OpenTelemetry community to export your data to New Relic.

To export OTLP data to New Relic, configure the OTLP exporter to add a header ( api-key ) whose value is your account license key.
And, based on your region, configure the endpoint where the exporter sends data to New Relic. See the [OpenTelemetry quick start](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start/) for more information.

* otlp.nr-data.net:4317 (US region accounts)
* otlp.eu01.nr-data.net:4317 (EU region accounts)

Network blocks for US region accounts:

* 162.247.240.0/22

Network blocks for EU region accounts:

* 185.221.84.0/22
