src/content/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/installation/secrets-management.mdx, before:

---
title: Secrets management
tags:
  - Integrations
  - On-host integrations
  - Installation
metaDescription: Use secrets variables in your New Relic infrastructure integration configuration to inject sensitive data that you don’t want in your configuration files.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/host-integrations/installation/secrets-management
  - /docs/integrations/host-integrations/secrets-management
  - /docs/integrations/host-integrations/get-started/secrets-management
---

With secrets management, you can configure the agent and on-host integrations to use sensitive data (such as passwords) without having to write them as plain text into the configuration files. Currently, Hashicorp Vault, AWS KMS, CyberArk, and New Relic CLI obfuscation are supported.

Learn more!

<Video id="8NAUi0H2sfU" type="youtube" />

## Define secrets

To use secrets in a configuration YAML file:

1. Define a `variables` section, where each entry is a name for a secret object.
2. In each entry, include the source of the secret and the proper configuration to retrieve those secrets.
3. In the general configuration section, set `${variable.property}` placeholders that will be automatically replaced by the properties of the secret object. The secret object can be defined as a simple string or json object.

<Callout variant="important">
  If the secrets retrieval fails, the integration won't be executed, as the infrastructure agent does not have all the data it requires to execute.
</Callout>

For example, the following configuration will retrieve an object named `creds` from Vault (you can define the object's name for the secret.) Let's assume that the stored object is a valid JSON with a property named `user` and another property named `password`. We want to use them to set the basic HTTP credentials of the `status_url` property from an Nginx on-host integration:

```
integration_name: com.newrelic.nginx
variables:
  creds:
    vault:
      http:
        url: http://my.vault.host/v1/newengine/data/secret
        headers:
          X-Vault-Token: my-vault-token
instances:
  - name: nginx-server-metrics
    command: metrics
    arguments:
      status_url: http://${creds.user}:${creds.password}@example.com/status
      status_module: discover
      remote_monitoring: true
    labels:
      env: production
      role: load_balancer
```

<Callout variant="tip">
  Both simple strings and valid JSON objects can be retrieved from variables.  
  When using JSON objects make sure both keys and values are enclosed with double-quotes.
</Callout>

## Using environment variables [#using-variables]

Environment variables can be used into the `variables` section with the `{{MY_ENV_VAR}}` notation. When doing so, environment variables are expanded and their value is replaced at runtime.

Use this method to avoid having sensitive values such as tokens or obfuscation keys included in the configuration file.

When using environment variables in on-host integration configuration files the [passthrough_environment](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/configuration/infrastructure-agent-configuration-settings#passthrough_-environment) setting must be defined.

## Secrets variables [#variables]

Define secrets in each configuration under a `variables` section. Each entry is a user-defined secret name that will store the properties of the retrieved secrets. Each variable can contain the following properties:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        YAML key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `ttl`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        Amount of time before a secret is refreshed. This can be a number followed by a time unit (`s`, `m` or `h`).

        Examples: `30s`, `10m`, `1h`

        Default: `1h`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `aws-kms`
      </td>

      <td>
        [AWS KMS secret retrieval configuration](#aws-kms-secrets)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `vault`
      </td>

      <td>
        [Vault secret retrieval configuration](#vault-secrets)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `cyberark-cli`
      </td>

      <td>
        CyberArk command line interface configuration
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `cyberark-api`
      </td>

      <td>
        [CyberArk REST API configuration](#cyberark-api)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `obfuscated`
      </td>

      <td>
        [New Relic CLI obfuscation](#newrelic-cli-obfuscation)
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## AWS KMS secrets

To retrieve your secrets from Amazon KMS, you can set the following properties in your `aws-kms` section. Not all fields are required. For example, you will need either `data`, `file`, or `http` to provide the encoded KMS string.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        YAML key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `data`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        Base64 encoded KMS string to decrypt
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `file`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        Path to file containing Base64 encoded KMS string to decrypt
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `http`

        Type: YAML properties
      </td>

      <td>
        HTTP configuration to use to request Base64 encoded KMS string to decrypt. For more information, see [Vault `http`](#vault-secrets).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `credential_file`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        Path to AWS credentials file
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `config_file`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        Path to AWS config file
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `region`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        AWS KMS region
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `type`

        Type: String (`plain`, `equal`, or `json`)
      </td>

      <td>
        Secret value format:

        * `plain`: a raw string to be stored directly into the destination variable.
        * `equal`: a `key=property` one-line string to be stored as object properties into the destination variable.
        * `json`: a JSON object to be stored as properties into the destination variable.

        Secrets of type `plain` or `json` use dot notation; for example, `${mysecret.nestedkey}`.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

The following example will allow retrieving a plain password string from AWS KMS. It must be decrypted from the provided `data` encoded string.

```
variables:
  myPassword:
    aws-kms:
      data: T0hBSStGTEVY
      region: ap-southeast-2
      credential_file: "./my-aws-credentials-file"
      config_file: "./my-aws-config-file"
      type: plain
```

## Vault secrets

Vault must enable an `http` field containing the HTTP configuration used to connect to Vault. The http entry can contain the following entries:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        YAML key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `url`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        URL to request data from
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `tls_config`

        Type: YAML properties
      </td>

      <td>
        Use the [TLS configuration properties](#tls-config-properties)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `headers`

        Type: YAML map
      </td>

      <td>
        Request headers
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### tls_config properties [#tls-config-properties]

<Callout variant="important">
  Secrets must use dot notation, for example, `${mysecret.nestedkey}`.
</Callout>

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        YAML key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `enable`

        Type: Boolean
      </td>

      <td>
        Enable TLS

        Default: `false`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `insecure_skip_verify`

        Type: Boolean
      </td>

      <td>
        Skip verifying server’s certificate chain and host

        Default: `false`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `min_version`

        Type: UInt16
      </td>

      <td>
        The minimum SSL/TLS version that is acceptable

        Default: `0` (which uses TLS version 1.0)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `max_version`

        Type: UInt16
      </td>

      <td>
        The maximum SSL/TLS version that is acceptable

        Default: `0` (which uses TLS version 1.3)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `ca`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        TLS certificate

        `""`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

The following example will retrieve a secret using a Vault token from a secured server, and skip the server certificates verification:

```
variables:
  mydata:
    vault:
      http:
        url: https://my.vault.host/v1/newengine/data/secret
        headers:
          X-Vault-Token: my-vault-token
        tls_config:
          insecure_skip_verify: true
```

## CyberArk command line interface [#cyberark-cli]

To retrieve secrets from the CyberArk command line interface (CLI) use the following configuration, all keys are required

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        YAML Key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style={{ textAlign: "left" }}>
        `cli`

        Type: string
      </td>

      <td>
        Full path to the CyberArk CLI executable

        Default: ""
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td style={{ textAlign: "left" }}>
        `app`-id

        Type: string
      </td>

      <td>
        Application id of the secret holder

        Default: ""
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td style={{ textAlign: "left" }}>
        `safe`

        Type: string
      </td>

      <td>
        Safe containing the secret

        Default: ""
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td style={{ textAlign: "left" }}>
        `folder`

        Type: string
      </td>

      <td>
        Folder containing the secret

        Default: ""
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td style={{ textAlign: "left" }}>
        `object`

        Type: string
      </td>

      <td>
        The object the secret is associated with

        Default: ""
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

The following example will retrieve a CyberArk secret using the command line interface:

```
variables:
  credentials:
    cyberark-cli:
      cli: /full/path/to/clipasswordsdk
      app-id: my-appid
      safe: my-safe
      folder: my-folder
      object: my-object
```

## CyberArk REST API [#cyberark-api]

To retrieve secrets using the CyberArk REST API there must be a `http` key containing the HTTP configuration. The `http` key contains these sub-keys, only `url` is required:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        YAML key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `url`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        URL to request data from, this key is required

        Default: none
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `tls_config`

        Type: YAML properties
      </td>

      <td>
        Use the [TLS configuration properties](#tls-config-properties)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `headers`

        Type: YAML map
      </td>

      <td>
        Request headers
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

The following example will retrieve a secret using the CyberArk REST API, skipping server certificate verification:

```
variables:
  credentials:
    cyberark-api:
      http:
        url: https://hostname/AIMWebService/api/Accounts?AppID=myAppID&Query=Safe=mySafe;Object=myObject
        tls_config:
          insecure_skip_verify: true
```

## New Relic CLI Obfuscation [#newrelic-cli-obfuscation]

<Callout variant="important">
  We recommend using any of the supported secrets providers instead of the simple obfuscation when possible.

  See our guidelines below to define environment variables to avoid having the obfuscation key in configuration files.
</Callout>

<Callout variant="tip">
  Infrastructure Agent 1.14.0 or above is required
</Callout>

You can use the New Relic CLI obfuscate command to obscure sensitive information in the infrastructure agent or any on-host integration configuration file.

Steps:

* [Install the New Relic CLI](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-cli/blob/master/docs/GETTING_STARTED.md) on any host (it can be your development host).
* Run the CLI [obfuscate command](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-cli/blob/master/docs/cli/newrelic_agent_config_obfuscate.md) in order to generate the obfuscated value:

```
newrelic agent config obfuscate --value '<plain_text_config_value>' --key '<obfuscation_key>'
```

* Copy the result of the cli command into the `text` argument in the `obfuscated` section as shown in the examples below.
* You can obfuscate JSON blocks if you need to reference multiple values in your configuration YML file. Note that you may need to escape the quotation marks `""` with backslashes on Windows hosts. For example: `'{\"attribute\":\"value\"...`. In addition, use Powershell on Windows hosts, rather than the Command Prompt window, since the Command Prompt window can handle quotation marks in unexpected ways. 

```
newrelic agent config obfuscate --value '{"attribute":"value", "attribute2":"value2"}' --key '<obfuscation_key>'
```

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        YAML key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        key

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        The string used when obfuscating the clear-text value using New Relic CLI

        Default: none
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `secret`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        The output of the newrelic-cli command

        Default: none
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Integrations configuration example**  
The following example will allow retrieving the Nginx user and password that has been obfuscated using the New Relic CLI. This example uses dot notation when retrieving the credentials, since the obfuscated value was a JSON block:

```
integration_name: com.newrelic.nginx
variables:
  creds:
    obfuscated:
      key: 'random_key_used_in_cli'
      secret: 'obscured_output_from_cli'
instances:
  - name: nginx-server-metrics
    command: metrics
    arguments:
      status_url: http://${creds.user}:${creds.password}@example.com/status
      status_module: discover
      remote_monitoring: true
```

It's recommended to use environment variables for the obfuscation arguments as shown in the example below:

```
integration_name: com.newrelic.nginx
variables:
  creds:
    obfuscated:
      key: {{OBFUSCATION_KEY}}
      secret: {{OBFUSCATION_TEXT}}
instances:
  - name: nginx-server-metrics
    command: metrics
    arguments:
      status_url: http://${creds.user}:${creds.password}@example.com/status
      status_module: discover
      remote_monitoring: true
```

**Agent configuration example**  
This example allows retrieving a string that contains the proxy details (user, password and host):

```
variables:
  obfuscated_proxy:
    obfuscated:
      key: 'random_key_used_in_cli'
      secret: 'obscured_output_from_cli'

proxy: ${obfuscated_proxy}
```

Commit message:

fix(various): added video durations

src/content/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/installation/secrets-management.mdx, after:

---
title: Secrets management
tags:
  - Integrations
  - On-host integrations
  - Installation
metaDescription: Use secrets variables in your New Relic infrastructure integration configuration to inject sensitive data that you don’t want in your configuration files.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/host-integrations/installation/secrets-management
  - /docs/integrations/host-integrations/secrets-management
  - /docs/integrations/host-integrations/get-started/secrets-management
---

With secrets management, you can configure the agent and on-host integrations to use sensitive data (such as passwords) without having to write them as plain text into the configuration files. Currently, Hashicorp Vault, AWS KMS, CyberArk, and New Relic CLI obfuscation are supported.

Learn more in this NerdBytes video (5:12 minutes).

<Video id="8NAUi0H2sfU" type="youtube" />

## Define secrets

To use secrets in a configuration YAML file:

1. Define a `variables` section, where each entry is a name for a secret object.
2. In each entry, include the source of the secret and the proper configuration to retrieve those secrets.
3. In the general configuration section, set `${variable.property}` placeholders that will be automatically replaced by the properties of the secret object. The secret object can be defined as a simple string or json object.

<Callout variant="important">
  If the secrets retrieval fails, the integration won't be executed, as the infrastructure agent does not have all the data it requires to execute.
</Callout>

For example, the following configuration will retrieve an object named `creds` from Vault (you can define the object's name for the secret.) Let's assume that the stored object is a valid JSON with a property named `user` and another property named `password`. We want to use them to set the basic HTTP credentials of the `status_url` property from an Nginx on-host integration:

```
integration_name: com.newrelic.nginx
variables:
  creds:
    vault:
      http:
        url: http://my.vault.host/v1/newengine/data/secret
        headers:
          X-Vault-Token: my-vault-token
instances:
  - name: nginx-server-metrics
    command: metrics
    arguments:
      status_url: http://${creds.user}:${creds.password}@example.com/status
      status_module: discover
      remote_monitoring: true
    labels:
      env: production
      role: load_balancer
```

<Callout variant="tip">
  Both simple strings and valid JSON objects can be retrieved from variables.  
  When using JSON objects make sure both keys and values are enclosed with double-quotes.
</Callout>

## Using environment variables [#using-variables]

Environment variables can be used into the `variables` section with the `{{MY_ENV_VAR}}` notation. When doing so, environment variables are expanded and their value is replaced at runtime.

Use this method to avoid having sensitive values such as tokens or obfuscation keys included in the configuration file.

When using environment variables in on-host integration configuration files the [passthrough_environment](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/configuration/infrastructure-agent-configuration-settings#passthrough_-environment) setting must be defined.

## Secrets variables [#variables]

Define secrets in each configuration under a `variables` section. Each entry is a user-defined secret name that will store the properties of the retrieved secrets. Each variable can contain the following properties:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        YAML key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `ttl`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        Amount of time before a secret is refreshed. This can be a number followed by a time unit (`s`, `m` or `h`).

        Examples: `30s`, `10m`, `1h`

        Default: `1h`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `aws-kms`
      </td>

      <td>
        [AWS KMS secret retrieval configuration](#aws-kms-secrets)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `vault`
      </td>

      <td>
        [Vault secret retrieval configuration](#vault-secrets)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `cyberark-cli`
      </td>

      <td>
        CyberArk command line interface configuration
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `cyberark-api`
      </td>

      <td>
        [CyberArk REST API configuration](#cyberark-api)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `obfuscated`
      </td>

      <td>
        [New Relic CLI obfuscation](#newrelic-cli-obfuscation)
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## AWS KMS secrets

To retrieve your secrets from Amazon KMS, you can set the following properties in your `aws-kms` section. Not all fields are required. For example, you will need either `data`, `file`, or `http` to provide the encoded KMS string.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        YAML key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `data`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        Base64 encoded KMS string to decrypt
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `file`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        Path to file containing Base64 encoded KMS string to decrypt
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `http`

        Type: YAML properties
      </td>

      <td>
        HTTP configuration to use to request Base64 encoded KMS string to decrypt. For more information, see [Vault `http`](#vault-secrets).
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `credential_file`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        Path to AWS credentials file
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `config_file`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        Path to AWS config file
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `region`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        AWS KMS region
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `type`

        Type: String (`plain`, `equal`, or `json`)
      </td>

      <td>
        Secret value format:

        * `plain`: a raw string to be stored directly into the destination variable.
        * `equal`: a `key=property` one-line string to be stored as object properties into the destination variable.
        * `json`: a JSON object to be stored as properties into the destination variable.

        Secrets of type `plain` or `json` use dot notation; for example, `${mysecret.nestedkey}`.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

The following example will allow retrieving a plain password string from AWS KMS. It must be decrypted from the provided `data` encoded string.

```
variables:
  myPassword:
    aws-kms:
      data: T0hBSStGTEVY
      region: ap-southeast-2
      credential_file: "./my-aws-credentials-file"
      config_file: "./my-aws-config-file"
      type: plain
```

## Vault secrets

Vault must enable an `http` field containing the HTTP configuration used to connect to Vault. The http entry can contain the following entries:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        YAML key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `url`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        URL to request data from
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `tls_config`

        Type: YAML properties
      </td>

      <td>
        Use the [TLS configuration properties](#tls-config-properties)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `headers`

        Type: YAML map
      </td>

      <td>
        Request headers
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### tls_config properties [#tls-config-properties]

<Callout variant="important">
  Secrets must use dot notation, for example, `${mysecret.nestedkey}`.
</Callout>

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        YAML key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `enable`

        Type: Boolean
      </td>

      <td>
        Enable TLS

        Default: `false`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `insecure_skip_verify`

        Type: Boolean
      </td>

      <td>
        Skip verifying server’s certificate chain and host

        Default: `false`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `min_version`

        Type: UInt16
      </td>

      <td>
        The minimum SSL/TLS version that is acceptable

        Default: `0` (which uses TLS version 1.0)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `max_version`

        Type: UInt16
      </td>

      <td>
        The maximum SSL/TLS version that is acceptable

        Default: `0` (which uses TLS version 1.3)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `ca`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        TLS certificate

        `""`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

The following example will retrieve a secret using a Vault token from a secured server, and skip the server certificates verification:

```
variables:
  mydata:
    vault:
      http:
        url: https://my.vault.host/v1/newengine/data/secret
        headers:
          X-Vault-Token: my-vault-token
        tls_config:
          insecure_skip_verify: true
```

## CyberArk command line interface [#cyberark-cli]

To retrieve secrets from the CyberArk command line interface (CLI) use the following configuration, all keys are required

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        YAML Key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style={{ textAlign: "left" }}>
        `cli`

        Type: string
      </td>

      <td>
        Full path to the CyberArk CLI executable

        Default: ""
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td style={{ textAlign: "left" }}>
        `app`-id

        Type: string
      </td>

      <td>
        Application id of the secret holder

        Default: ""
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td style={{ textAlign: "left" }}>
        `safe`

        Type: string
      </td>

      <td>
        Safe containing the secret

        Default: ""
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td style={{ textAlign: "left" }}>
        `folder`

        Type: string
      </td>

      <td>
        Folder containing the secret

        Default: ""
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td style={{ textAlign: "left" }}>
        `object`

        Type: string
      </td>

      <td>
        The object the secret is associated with

        Default: ""
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

The following example will retrieve a CyberArk secret using the command line interface:

```
variables:
  credentials:
    cyberark-cli:
      cli: /full/path/to/clipasswordsdk
      app-id: my-appid
      safe: my-safe
      folder: my-folder
      object: my-object
```

## CyberArk REST API [#cyberark-api]

To retrieve secrets using the CyberArk REST API there must be a `http` key containing the HTTP configuration. The `http` key contains these sub-keys, only `url` is required:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        YAML key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `url`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        URL to request data from, this key is required

        Default: none
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `tls_config`

        Type: YAML properties
      </td>

      <td>
        Use the [TLS configuration properties](#tls-config-properties)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `headers`

        Type: YAML map
      </td>

      <td>
        Request headers
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

The following example will retrieve a secret using the CyberArk REST API, skipping server certificate verification:

```
variables:
  credentials:
    cyberark-api:
      http:
        url: https://hostname/AIMWebService/api/Accounts?AppID=myAppID&Query=Safe=mySafe;Object=myObject
        tls_config:
          insecure_skip_verify: true
```

## New Relic CLI Obfuscation [#newrelic-cli-obfuscation]

<Callout variant="important">
  We recommend using any of the supported secrets providers instead of the simple obfuscation when possible.

  See our guidelines below to define environment variables to avoid having the obfuscation key in configuration files.
</Callout>

<Callout variant="tip">
  Infrastructure Agent 1.14.0 or above is required
</Callout>

You can use the New Relic CLI obfuscate command to obscure sensitive information in the infrastructure agent or any on-host integration configuration file.

Steps:

* [Install the New Relic CLI](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-cli/blob/master/docs/GETTING_STARTED.md) on any host (it can be your development host).
* Run the CLI [obfuscate command](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-cli/blob/master/docs/cli/newrelic_agent_config_obfuscate.md) in order to generate the obfuscated value:

```
newrelic agent config obfuscate --value '<plain_text_config_value>' --key '<obfuscation_key>'
```

* Copy the result of the cli command into the `text` argument in the `obfuscated` section as shown in the examples below.
* You can obfuscate JSON blocks if you need to reference multiple values in your configuration YML file. Note that you may need to escape the quotation marks `""` with backslashes on Windows hosts. For example: `'{\"attribute\":\"value\"...`. In addition, use Powershell on Windows hosts, rather than the Command Prompt window, since the Command Prompt window can handle quotation marks in unexpected ways. 

```
newrelic agent config obfuscate --value '{"attribute":"value", "attribute2":"value2"}' --key '<obfuscation_key>'
```

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        YAML key
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        key

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        The string used when obfuscating the clear-text value using New Relic CLI

        Default: none
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `secret`

        Type: String
      </td>

      <td>
        The output of the newrelic-cli command

        Default: none
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Integrations configuration example**  
The following example will allow retrieving the Nginx user and password that has been obfuscated using the New Relic CLI. This example uses dot notation when retrieving the credentials, since the obfuscated value was a JSON block:

```
integration_name: com.newrelic.nginx
variables:
  creds:
    obfuscated:
      key: 'random_key_used_in_cli'
      secret: 'obscured_output_from_cli'
instances:
  - name: nginx-server-metrics
    command: metrics
    arguments:
      status_url: http://${creds.user}:${creds.password}@example.com/status
      status_module: discover
      remote_monitoring: true
```

It's recommended to use environment variables for the obfuscation arguments as shown in the example below:

```
integration_name: com.newrelic.nginx
variables:
  creds:
    obfuscated:
      key: {{OBFUSCATION_KEY}}
      secret: {{OBFUSCATION_TEXT}}
instances:
  - name: nginx-server-metrics
    command: metrics
    arguments:
      status_url: http://${creds.user}:${creds.password}@example.com/status
      status_module: discover
      remote_monitoring: true
```

**Agent configuration example**  
This example allows retrieving a string that contains the proxy details (user, password and host):

```
variables:
  obfuscated_proxy:
    obfuscated:
      key: 'random_key_used_in_cli'
      secret: 'obscured_output_from_cli'

proxy: ${obfuscated_proxy}
```
