src/content/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors/add-edit-monitors.mdx, before:

---
title: Add and edit monitors
tags:
  - Synthetics
  - Synthetic monitoring
  - Using monitors
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'Synthetic monitoring: how to add or edit ping monitors, simple browser monitors, scripted browser monitors, and API test monitors.'
redirects:
  - /docs/new-relic-only/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/adding-editing-monitors
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/adding-editing-monitors
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/add-edit-monitors
  - /docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors
---

Synthetic monitors are API checks or virtual browser instances that monitor your website, recording [each check in detail](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/viewing-monitor-results). They can also:

* Capture aggregate numbers, including an [overview](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-overview-dashboard-view-monitors-performance) or [summary](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/pages/summary-page) for ping monitors.
* Provide detailed statistics for each [page resource](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-resources-dashboard-understand-load-times), and [downtime incidents](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-downtimes-dashboard-troubleshoot-downtime).
* Collect [custom response codes](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/synthetics-response-codes) for more detail on your monitor runs.

You'll be able to add and configure synthetic monitors to suit your environnment after you [create a New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup). (It's free, forever!)

## Add a monitor [#adding-monitors]

You can add several [types of synthetic monitors](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/types-synthetics-monitors):

* Ping monitors ensure your website is responding, while simple browser monitors send real browsers to check your website.
* For more complex monitoring, scripted browser monitors verify that specific resources are present, while API tests verify your API endpoint.

The default timeout for a new monitor is 180 seconds.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="simple"
    title="Add a ping or simple browser monitor"
  >
    1. Go to [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com/) **> Synthetics > <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/>
       Create monitor**.
    2. Specify a [monitor type](#setting-type), [name](#setting-name), and URL (may be any valid HTTP or HTTPS URL).
    3. Optional: Add a **validation string** or **Advanced options**:
       * A **validation string** is available for ping and simple browser. This option enables substring monitoring for [response validation](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/add-edit-monitors#response-validation).
       * **Verify SSL** is available for ping and simple browser. This option verifies the validity of the SSL certificate chain. It can be duplicated by running the following syntax:

         ```
         openssl s_client -servername {<var>YOUR_HOSTNAME</var>} -connect {<var>YOUR_HOSTNAME</var>}:443 -CApath /etc/ssl/certs -verify_hostname {<var>YOUR_HOSTNAME</var>} > /dev/null
         ```

         If a non-zero exit code is returned, the monitor will fail.
       * The **Bypass HEAD request** option is available for ping. This option skips the default `HEAD` request and instead uses the `GET` verb with a ping check.
       * **Redirect is Failure** is available for ping. If a redirect result occurs when Redirect is Failure is enabled, New Relic Synthetics will categorize the result as a failure, rather than following the redirect and checking the resulting URL.
    4. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run.
    5. Choose a [frequency](#setting-frequency) to determine how often each location will run your monitor.
    6. Optional: Set up [alert notifications](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/alerting-synthetics).
    7. Select **Create my monitor** to confirm.

    Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/new-relic-one-monitors-index).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="complex"
    title="Add a scripted browser or API test monitor"
  >
    1. Go to [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com/) **> Synthetics > <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/>
       Create monitor**.
    2. Specify a [monitor type](#setting-type) and [name](#setting-name).
    3. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run.
    4. Choose a [frequency](#setting-frequency) to determine how often each location will run your monitor.
    5. Optional: Set up [alert notifications](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/alerting-synthetics).
    6. Select **Next: Write your script** to create a script for your [**scripted browser**](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-synthetic-scripts) or [**API test**](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-api-tests), then select **Validate** to verify your syntax.

       <Callout variant="tip">
         For complex scripts, validation may take up to one minute.
       </Callout>
    7. Select **Create my monitor** to confirm.

    Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).
  </Collapser>

   <Collapser
    id="stepmonitor"
    title="Add a step monitor"
  >
    1. Go to [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com/) **> Synthetics > <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/>
       Create monitor**.
    2. Select step monitor as the [monitor type](#setting-type).
    3. Specify a [name](#setting-name) and choose a [frequency](#setting-frequency) to determine how often each location will run your monitor.
    4. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run.
    5. Build your monitor by selecting from the preconfigured steps at the bottom of the UI:
        * Navigate to a URL
        * Type text
        * Click an element
        * Assert text
        * Assert an element
        * Secure a credential

        Use the instructions on the right side of the UI to help locate elements by CSS class, HTML ID, link text, or XPath.
    6. Select **Save monitor** to confirm.

  Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="certificate"
    title="Add a certificate check monitor"
  >
    1. Go to [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com/) **> Synthetics > <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/>
       Create monitor**.
    2. Select the certificate check monitor type.
    3. Specify a [name](#setting-name) and enter the domain you'd like to monitor.
    4. Enter the number of days it takes for your certificate to expire.
    5. Select the period to determine your monitor's [frequency](#setting-frequency).
    6. Optional: Add tags to help you find this monitor later.
    7. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run, and then click **Save monitor** to confirm.

    Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).

  </Collapser>

    <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="broken-links"
    title="Add a broken links monitor"
  >
    1. Go to [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com/) **> Synthetics > <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/>
       Create monitor**.
    2. Select the broken links check monitor type.
    3. Specify a [name](#setting-name) and enter the URL you'd like to monitor (may be any valid HTTP or HTTPS URL). 
    4. Select the period to determine your monitor's [frequency](#setting-frequency).
    5. Optional: Add tags to help you find this monitor later.
    6. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run, and then click **Save monitor** to confirm.

    Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).
  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

<Callout variant="tip">
  You can also add monitors with the [Synthetics REST API](/docs/apis/synthetics-rest-api/monitor-examples/manage-synthetics-monitors-via-rest-api#add-simple-ping-monitor). For example, you can create a `GET` request to the monitor you want to use as the source for configuration, then use those key values to use in a `POST` to "copy" and create a new monitor.
</Callout>

## Edit a monitor [#editing-monitors]

You cannot change a monitor's [type](#setting-type) after the monitor is created, but you can edit other monitor settings.

1. From the **Monitors** tab in [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com/) **> Synthetics**, select the monitor you want to edit.
2. In the side menu, select a link to change the following [settings](#settings):

   * Select **Settings > General** to edit [name](#setting-name), [Apdex T](#setting-apdex), URL, [locations](#setting-location), [frequency](#setting-frequency), and advanced options.
   * For **Scripted browser** and **API test** monitors, select **Settings > Script** to edit your monitor script.
   * For synthetic monitoring alerts, click **Manage alerts**.
3. Select **Save changes** to confirm.

## Delete a monitor [#deleting-monitors]

To delete a monitor:

1. From the **Monitors** tab in [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com/) **> Synthetics**, select the monitor you want to edit.
2. From the selected monitor, select **Settings > General**.
3. Scroll to the bottom of the page and select the trash can icon.

<Callout variant="tip">
  You can also delete a monitor with the [Synthetics REST API](/docs/apis/synthetics-rest-api/monitor-examples/manage-synthetics-monitors-via-rest-api#delete-monitor).
</Callout>

## Monitor settings [#settings]

When configuring monitors, the following settings are available:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="setting-type"
    title="Type"
  >
    Select the type of monitor you want to create. A monitor's [type](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/types-synthetics-monitors#types-monitors) can't be changed after the monitor is created.

    * **Ping**: Specify a single URL to monitor for availability. New Relic will check this URL via HEAD or GET requests. The non-configurable [timeout](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-scripted-browsers#waiting-elements) for this monitor is 60 seconds.
    * **Simple browser**: Specify a single URL to monitor via real browser. Once each [frequency interval](#setting-frequency), New Relic will check this URL via a Selenium-powered Google Chrome browser. The non-configurable [timeout](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-scripted-browsers#waiting-elements) for this monitor is 60 seconds.
    * **Scripted browser**: [Create a script](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-synthetic-scripts) to drive a Selenium-powered Google Chrome browser. The browser follows each step in the script to verify that complex behavior is working as expected (for example, searching a website, then clicking one of the search results). The non-configurable [timeout](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-scripted-browsers#waiting-elements) for this monitor is 180 seconds.
    * **API test**: Create an API script to ensure your API endpoint is working correctly. For more information, see [Write API tests](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-api-tests). The non-configurable timeout for this monitor is 180 seconds.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-name"
    title="Monitor name"
  >
    Defines a name for the monitor. Monitor names cannot contain unencoded angle brackets (`< >`). To include angle brackets in a monitor name, encode them as HTML bracket entities (`&lt; &gt;`) in the UI or API.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-location"
    title="Location"
  >
    Select the locations where you want your monitor to run. Select more locations to ensure that your application is available to users around the world. If you have any [private locations](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/private-locations/private-locations-overview-monitor-internal-sites-add-new-locations), they will be listed here too. You can use the [Synthetics API `location` endpoint](/docs/apis/synthetics-rest-api/monitor-examples/manage-synthetics-monitors-via-rest-api#list-locations) to retrieve a list of valid locations for your account.

    Your monitor will run one check from each selected location during each [frequency interval](#setting-frequency). For example, if you select three locations and define a frequency of 15 minutes, your monitor will run three checks in each 15 minute period (or 8,640 checks per month).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-frequency"
    title="Frequency"
  >
    Select how often the monitor runs, in increments of minutes, hours, or 1 day. This frequency applies to each [location](#setting-location). For example, if you select three locations and a Frequency of **15 minutes**, your monitor will run three checks, on average every 5 minutes, in each 15 minute period (or 8,640 checks per month).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-alerts"
    title="Alerts"
  >
    Specify an email address to receive alerts when a monitor fails. Or, attach a monitor to an existing alert policy for more notification options. For more information, see [Alerting for synthetic monitoring](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/alerting-synthetics).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-apdex"
    title="Apdex T"
  >
    Customize the [Apdex T](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/getting-started/glossary#apdex_t) for this monitor. This setting is only available when editing the settings for an existing monitor, not when creating a new monitor. Change the Apdex T from the default 7 seconds for more accurate Apdex scores [in your SLA reports](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-sla-report-dashboard-aggregate-metrics-all-monitors). For example, if you have a very long [scripted browser](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-scripted-browsers), you might adjust the Apdex T to 15 seconds to more closely reflect the usual completion time. Similarly, a good Apdex T for a simple browser check might be only 2 seconds.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="response-validation"
    title="Response Validation (optional)"
  >
    Specify text to search for on the page. When using simple browser or ping [monitor types](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/types-synthetics-monitors#types-monitors), there is a 1MB (10^6 bytes) limit on the page load.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## See a history of monitor changes [#track-changes]

You can use New Relic One to see a [history of recent changes to synthetic monitors](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/administration/audit-synthetics-account-changes) and what users changed them.

Commit message:

Clarifies permissions needed for monitor deletion

src/content/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors/add-edit-monitors.mdx, after:

---
title: Add and edit monitors
tags:
  - Synthetics
  - Synthetic monitoring
  - Using monitors
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'Synthetic monitoring: how to add or edit ping monitors, simple browser monitors, scripted browser monitors, and API test monitors.'
redirects:
  - /docs/new-relic-only/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/adding-editing-monitors
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/adding-editing-monitors
  - /docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/add-edit-monitors
  - /docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors
---

Synthetic monitors are API checks or virtual browser instances that monitor your website, recording [each check in detail](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/viewing-monitor-results). They can also:

* Capture aggregate numbers, including an [overview](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-overview-dashboard-view-monitors-performance) or [summary](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/pages/summary-page) for ping monitors.
* Provide detailed statistics for each [page resource](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-resources-dashboard-understand-load-times), and [downtime incidents](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-downtimes-dashboard-troubleshoot-downtime).
* Collect [custom response codes](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/synthetics-response-codes) for more detail on your monitor runs.

You'll be able to add and configure synthetic monitors to suit your environnment after you [create a New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup). (It's free, forever!)

## Add a monitor [#adding-monitors]

You can add several [types of synthetic monitors](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/types-synthetics-monitors):

* Ping monitors ensure your website is responding, while simple browser monitors send real browsers to check your website.
* For more complex monitoring, scripted browser monitors verify that specific resources are present, while API tests verify your API endpoint.

The default timeout for a new monitor is 180 seconds.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="simple"
    title="Add a ping or simple browser monitor"
  >
    1. Go to [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com/) **> Synthetics > <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/>
       Create monitor**.
    2. Specify a [monitor type](#setting-type), [name](#setting-name), and URL (may be any valid HTTP or HTTPS URL).
    3. Optional: Add a **validation string** or **Advanced options**:
       * A **validation string** is available for ping and simple browser. This option enables substring monitoring for [response validation](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/add-edit-monitors#response-validation).
       * **Verify SSL** is available for ping and simple browser. This option verifies the validity of the SSL certificate chain. It can be duplicated by running the following syntax:

         ```
         openssl s_client -servername {<var>YOUR_HOSTNAME</var>} -connect {<var>YOUR_HOSTNAME</var>}:443 -CApath /etc/ssl/certs -verify_hostname {<var>YOUR_HOSTNAME</var>} > /dev/null
         ```

         If a non-zero exit code is returned, the monitor will fail.
       * The **Bypass HEAD request** option is available for ping. This option skips the default `HEAD` request and instead uses the `GET` verb with a ping check.
       * **Redirect is Failure** is available for ping. If a redirect result occurs when Redirect is Failure is enabled, New Relic Synthetics will categorize the result as a failure, rather than following the redirect and checking the resulting URL.
    4. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run.
    5. Choose a [frequency](#setting-frequency) to determine how often each location will run your monitor.
    6. Optional: Set up [alert notifications](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/alerting-synthetics).
    7. Select **Create my monitor** to confirm.

    Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/new-relic-one-monitors-index).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="complex"
    title="Add a scripted browser or API test monitor"
  >
    1. Go to [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com/) **> Synthetics > <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/>
       Create monitor**.
    2. Specify a [monitor type](#setting-type) and [name](#setting-name).
    3. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run.
    4. Choose a [frequency](#setting-frequency) to determine how often each location will run your monitor.
    5. Optional: Set up [alert notifications](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/alerting-synthetics).
    6. Select **Next: Write your script** to create a script for your [**scripted browser**](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-synthetic-scripts) or [**API test**](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-api-tests), then select **Validate** to verify your syntax.

       <Callout variant="tip">
         For complex scripts, validation may take up to one minute.
       </Callout>
    7. Select **Create my monitor** to confirm.

    Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).
  </Collapser>

   <Collapser
    id="stepmonitor"
    title="Add a step monitor"
  >
    1. Go to [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com/) **> Synthetics > <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/>
       Create monitor**.
    2. Select step monitor as the [monitor type](#setting-type).
    3. Specify a [name](#setting-name) and choose a [frequency](#setting-frequency) to determine how often each location will run your monitor.
    4. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run.
    5. Build your monitor by selecting from the preconfigured steps at the bottom of the UI:
        * Navigate to a URL
        * Type text
        * Click an element
        * Assert text
        * Assert an element
        * Secure a credential

        Use the instructions on the right side of the UI to help locate elements by CSS class, HTML ID, link text, or XPath.
    6. Select **Save monitor** to confirm.

  Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="certificate"
    title="Add a certificate check monitor"
  >
    1. Go to [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com/) **> Synthetics > <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/>
       Create monitor**.
    2. Select the certificate check monitor type.
    3. Specify a [name](#setting-name) and enter the domain you'd like to monitor.
    4. Enter the number of days it takes for your certificate to expire.
    5. Select the period to determine your monitor's [frequency](#setting-frequency).
    6. Optional: Add tags to help you find this monitor later.
    7. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run, and then click **Save monitor** to confirm.

    Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).

  </Collapser>

    <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="broken-links"
    title="Add a broken links monitor"
  >
    1. Go to [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com/) **> Synthetics > <Icon name="fe-plus-circle"/>
       Create monitor**.
    2. Select the broken links check monitor type.
    3. Specify a [name](#setting-name) and enter the URL you'd like to monitor (may be any valid HTTP or HTTPS URL). 
    4. Select the period to determine your monitor's [frequency](#setting-frequency).
    5. Optional: Add tags to help you find this monitor later.
    6. Select the [locations](#setting-location) from which you want your monitor to run, and then click **Save monitor** to confirm.

    Generate some traffic and wait a few minutes, then check your monitor from the [**Monitors** index](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-monitors-dashboard-access-your-monitors).
  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

<Callout variant="tip">
  You can also add monitors with the [Synthetics REST API](/docs/apis/synthetics-rest-api/monitor-examples/manage-synthetics-monitors-via-rest-api#add-simple-ping-monitor). For example, you can create a `GET` request to the monitor you want to use as the source for configuration, then use those key values to use in a `POST` to "copy" and create a new monitor.
</Callout>

## Edit a monitor [#editing-monitors]

You cannot change a monitor's [type](#setting-type) after the monitor is created, but you can edit other monitor settings.

1. From the **Monitors** tab in [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com/) **> Synthetics**, select the monitor you want to edit.
2. In the side menu, select a link to change the following [settings](#settings):

   * Select **Settings > General** to edit [name](#setting-name), [Apdex T](#setting-apdex), URL, [locations](#setting-location), [frequency](#setting-frequency), and advanced options.
   * For **Scripted browser** and **API test** monitors, select **Settings > Script** to edit your monitor script.
   * For synthetic monitoring alerts, click **Manage alerts**.
3. Select **Save changes** to confirm.

## Delete a monitor [#deleting-monitors]

You must have [Admin Privileges](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/administration/user-roles-synthetic-monitoring/) in order to delete a Synthetics Monitor.

To delete a monitor:

1. From the **Monitors** tab in [**one.newrelic.com**](http://one.newrelic.com/) **> Synthetics**, select the monitor you want to edit.
2. From the selected monitor, select **Settings > General**.
3. Scroll to the bottom of the page and select the trash can icon.

<Callout variant="tip">
  You can also delete a monitor with the [Synthetics REST API](/docs/apis/synthetics-rest-api/monitor-examples/manage-synthetics-monitors-via-rest-api#delete-monitor).
</Callout>

## Monitor settings [#settings]

When configuring monitors, the following settings are available:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="setting-type"
    title="Type"
  >
    Select the type of monitor you want to create. A monitor's [type](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/types-synthetics-monitors#types-monitors) can't be changed after the monitor is created.

    * **Ping**: Specify a single URL to monitor for availability. New Relic will check this URL via HEAD or GET requests. The non-configurable [timeout](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-scripted-browsers#waiting-elements) for this monitor is 60 seconds.
    * **Simple browser**: Specify a single URL to monitor via real browser. Once each [frequency interval](#setting-frequency), New Relic will check this URL via a Selenium-powered Google Chrome browser. The non-configurable [timeout](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-scripted-browsers#waiting-elements) for this monitor is 60 seconds.
    * **Scripted browser**: [Create a script](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-synthetic-scripts) to drive a Selenium-powered Google Chrome browser. The browser follows each step in the script to verify that complex behavior is working as expected (for example, searching a website, then clicking one of the search results). The non-configurable [timeout](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-scripted-browsers#waiting-elements) for this monitor is 180 seconds.
    * **API test**: Create an API script to ensure your API endpoint is working correctly. For more information, see [Write API tests](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-api-tests). The non-configurable timeout for this monitor is 180 seconds.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-name"
    title="Monitor name"
  >
    Defines a name for the monitor. Monitor names cannot contain unencoded angle brackets (`< >`). To include angle brackets in a monitor name, encode them as HTML bracket entities (`&lt; &gt;`) in the UI or API.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-location"
    title="Location"
  >
    Select the locations where you want your monitor to run. Select more locations to ensure that your application is available to users around the world. If you have any [private locations](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/private-locations/private-locations-overview-monitor-internal-sites-add-new-locations), they will be listed here too. You can use the [Synthetics API `location` endpoint](/docs/apis/synthetics-rest-api/monitor-examples/manage-synthetics-monitors-via-rest-api#list-locations) to retrieve a list of valid locations for your account.

    Your monitor will run one check from each selected location during each [frequency interval](#setting-frequency). For example, if you select three locations and define a frequency of 15 minutes, your monitor will run three checks in each 15 minute period (or 8,640 checks per month).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-frequency"
    title="Frequency"
  >
    Select how often the monitor runs, in increments of minutes, hours, or 1 day. This frequency applies to each [location](#setting-location). For example, if you select three locations and a Frequency of **15 minutes**, your monitor will run three checks, on average every 5 minutes, in each 15 minute period (or 8,640 checks per month).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-alerts"
    title="Alerts"
  >
    Specify an email address to receive alerts when a monitor fails. Or, attach a monitor to an existing alert policy for more notification options. For more information, see [Alerting for synthetic monitoring](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/alerting-synthetics).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="setting-apdex"
    title="Apdex T"
  >
    Customize the [Apdex T](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/getting-started/glossary#apdex_t) for this monitor. This setting is only available when editing the settings for an existing monitor, not when creating a new monitor. Change the Apdex T from the default 7 seconds for more accurate Apdex scores [in your SLA reports](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/dashboards/synthetics-sla-report-dashboard-aggregate-metrics-all-monitors). For example, if you have a very long [scripted browser](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/writing-scripted-browsers), you might adjust the Apdex T to 15 seconds to more closely reflect the usual completion time. Similarly, a good Apdex T for a simple browser check might be only 2 seconds.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="response-validation"
    title="Response Validation (optional)"
  >
    Specify text to search for on the page. When using simple browser or ping [monitor types](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/types-synthetics-monitors#types-monitors), there is a 1MB (10^6 bytes) limit on the page load.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## See a history of monitor changes [#track-changes]

You can use New Relic One to see a [history of recent changes to synthetic monitors](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/administration/audit-synthetics-account-changes) and what users changed them.
