src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-setup/troubleshoot-new-relics-password-email-address-login-problems.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Troubleshoot password, email address, and login issues'
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - Account setup
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: Troubleshooting tips for logging into New Relic.
redirects:
  - /docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-setup/troubleshoot-account-password-problems
  - /docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-setup/troubleshoot-password-or-login-problems
  - /docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-setup/troubleshoot-password-email-address-login-problems
  - /docs/accounts-partnerships/install-new-relic/account-setup/troubleshoot-password-email-address-login-problems
  - /docs/accounts/install-new-relic/account-setup/troubleshoot-password-email-address-login-problems
---

If you have problems with your email address or password when [logging in to New Relic](https://login.newrelic.com/login/), review these troubleshooting tips. (Do not have a New Relic account yet? [Sign up here](https://newrelic.com/signup). It's free!)

<Callout variant="tip">
  To learn about factors affecting access to features and data, see [Factors affecting access](/docs/factors-affecting-access-features-data).
</Callout>

## Account access issues [#account-access]


If you're logged into New Relic but don't see the accounts or data you expect, see [Factors affecting access](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/factors-affecting-access-features-data#account-access). 

## Password solutions [#solution]

New Relic requires a valid email address and a [valid password](/docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-maintenance/change-passwords-user-preferences#requirements) in order for you to log in and to receive information from New Relic. If you are unable to create your account successfully, or if you have password or other login problems, review these troubleshooting suggestions to try to identify a resolution.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="forgot-password"
    title="Forgot your password, or your password does not work."
  >
    If you have forgotten your New Relic account password, or if your password does not work, request a password reset from New Relic. If you have access to multiple New Relic logins, also ensure you are using the correct password for the login method you're using

    1. Go to [New Relic's login page](https://login.newrelic.com/login).
    2. Select **Forgot your password**.
    3. Type your account email address, and select **Send my reset link**.
    4. When you receive a confirmation email from New Relic, select the password reset link, and [follow New Relic's password requirements](/docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-maintenance/change-passwords-user-preferences#requirements) to complete the process to reset your password.

    <Callout variant="important">
      The password reset link expires after 12 hours. If you do not quickly receive an email from New Relic, check your [spam filters](/docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-setup/create-your-new-relic-account#email-whitelist), contact your organization's email administrator for troubleshooting suggestions, get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com).
    </Callout>
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="reset-password"
    title="Reset password."
  >
    If you forgot your own password or need to request a password reset for your account email, you can use New Relic's [self-service options](#forgot-password). Admin-level users cannot reset passwords for other users. If you need to reset someone else's password, get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="account-login-errors"
    title="Password error messages."
  >
    If you complete the signup process and are unable to log in to your account due to password error messages, get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com/home).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="expired-password"
    title="Password reset link expired."
  >
    If you want to change your password but you see a message that the password reset link expired, try using a private browser or clearing your browser cache and cookies.

    <Callout variant="important">
      The password reset link expires after 12 hours. If you do not quickly receive an email from New Relic after you select the reset link, check your [spam filters](/docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-setup/create-your-new-relic-account#email-whitelist), contact your organization's email administrator for troubleshooting suggestions, get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com).
    </Callout>
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="existing-user"
    title="Added existing user to another New Relic account."
  >
    If you're an existing New Relic account user and you have been [added to another account](/docs/accounts/install-new-relic/account-setup/use-multiple-accounts), you don't need to create a new password. Your existing password will work for each account, and you can [switch between accounts](/docs/accounts/install-new-relic/account-setup/use-multiple-accounts#switch-accounts) after logging in.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Email solutions [#solution-email]

New Relic requires a valid email address and a [valid password](/docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-maintenance/change-passwords-user-preferences#requirements) in order for you to log in and to receive information from New Relic. If you're unable to create your account successfully, or if you have email or other login problems, review these troubleshooting suggestions to try to identify a resolution.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="no-confirmation-email"
    title="Did not receive new account confirmation email."
  >
    When you first create your account, New Relic sends a confirmation email so you can complete the setup process and sign in. If you cannot locate your original account confirmation email:

    1. Go to New Relic's login page at **[login.newrelic.com/login](https://login.newrelic.com/login)**.
    2. Select **Forgot your password**.
    3. Type your account email address, and select **Send my password**.
    4. When New Relic's system returns an email message, select the link in it to confirm your account again.

    If you don't receive an email from New Relic:

    * Check your [spam filters](/docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-setup/create-your-new-relic-account#email-whitelist). If applicable, [add New Relic to your email allow list](/docs/accounts/accounts/account-maintenance/account-email-settings#email-whitelist).
    * Get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com/home).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="forgot-email"
    title="Email address does not work or email error messages."
  >
    If you complete the signup process and are unable to log in to your account due to email or password error messages, get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com/home).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="account-exists"
    title="Received message that your email account already exists."
  >
    If you are trying to create a new account and receive a message that your email account already exists, get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com/home).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="link-redirect"
    title="Email link does not redirect to the password reset page."
  >
    If you have used your password reset link but are not redirected to the password reset page, troubleshoot the following:

    * Your password reset link has expired. You will need to [request a new link](#forgot-password) from the New Relic website.
    * You are experiencing a caching issue. Clear your browsing cache or use a private browsing window before trying the link again.

    <Callout variant="tip">
      **Private browsing**, also known as **incognito mode**, is a privacy feature to disable browsing history and the web cache. To open a private browsing window, you can use the keyboard shortcut `CTRL+Shift+N` on Windows and `Command+Shift+N` on Mac for most browsing applications.
    </Callout>

    If this still doesn't solve your problem, get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com/home).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="verify-email"
    title="Asked to verify email during login."
  >
    If your email is associated with multiple accounts, you will be given the option to verify your email during login. This will allow you to choose which account to access. If you do not verify your email address, New Relic will attempt to log you in with the most recently created user record associated with your email address.

    To avoid verifying your email during each login, click the **Remember Me** checkbox in the login screen.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## General system solutions [#solution-system]

Some general system problems and solutions: 

<CollapserGroup>

  <Collapser
    id="delete-account"
    title="Delete an account you recently created."
  >
    If you created a New Relic account unnecessarily and want to delete it, and if that account is a simple one, you may be able to delete it yourself. See [Delete simple organization](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-setup/downgradecancel-account/#cancel-simple-org).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="two-week-option"
    title="SAML single sign-on (SSO) problems prevent login."
  >
    If your organization uses a SAML Single Sign On (SSO) solution, you can skip the **Password** field when you log in. If you need to reset your password, contact your organization's system administrator or IT department as applicable.

    If you're an administrator who has recently enabled or made changes to your SAML SSO settings and are unable to log in, there might be an issue with your configuration. Customers on the [New Relic One user model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model-understand-user-structure) can use a special recovery flow to fix any issues. Visit [login.newrelic.com/recovery_access](http://login.newrelic.com/recovery_access) to bypass SSO and gain one-time access to your organization.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="failure-errors"
    title="System failure errors prevent login."
  >
    If you receive failure errors while trying to sign up, a third-party password manager may be triggering New Relic's spam trap. To work around this, try these solutions:

    * Bypass your password manager.
    * Use a different browser to sign up with New Relic.
    * Get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com/home).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Mobile device solutions [#mobile-errors]

If you are unable to log in from your mobile device, the new user authentication time frame may have expired. You must complete this process within 20 minutes of receiving New Relic's confirmation message for your mobile device.

To solve this problem, request another confirmation message to be sent to your device. Also, depending on your New Relic account, additional installation or authentication steps may be required for your [iOS](/docs/mobile-apps/new-relic-ios-app/features/ios-user-settings-authentication) or [Android](/docs/mobile-apps/new-relic-android-app/features/android-authentication) app account.

## Solutions for other situations [#solution-other]

Here are suggestions for other unique situations.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="partner-errors"
    title="Unable to log in from your New Relic partner account."
  >
    With [partner accounts](/docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/saml-single-sign/new-relic-partners-saml-sso), SAML SSO authentication to sign in to New Relic is controlled by the partnership. [Depending on the partnership](/docs/accounts-partnerships/partnerships/partner-based-installation/log-install-new-relic-partners), you may or may not be able to log in directly to New Relic.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

Commit message:

chore(sweep): contraction change "don't"

src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-setup/troubleshoot-new-relics-password-email-address-login-problems.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Troubleshoot password, email address, and login issues'
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - Account setup
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: Troubleshooting tips for logging into New Relic.
redirects:
  - /docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-setup/troubleshoot-account-password-problems
  - /docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-setup/troubleshoot-password-or-login-problems
  - /docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-setup/troubleshoot-password-email-address-login-problems
  - /docs/accounts-partnerships/install-new-relic/account-setup/troubleshoot-password-email-address-login-problems
  - /docs/accounts/install-new-relic/account-setup/troubleshoot-password-email-address-login-problems
---

If you have problems with your email address or password when [logging in to New Relic](https://login.newrelic.com/login/), review these troubleshooting tips. (Do not have a New Relic account yet? [Sign up here](https://newrelic.com/signup). It's free!)

<Callout variant="tip">
  To learn about factors affecting access to features and data, see [Factors affecting access](/docs/factors-affecting-access-features-data).
</Callout>

## Account access issues [#account-access]


If you're logged into New Relic but do not see the accounts or data you expect, see [Factors affecting access](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/factors-affecting-access-features-data#account-access). 

## Password solutions [#solution]

New Relic requires a valid email address and a [valid password](/docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-maintenance/change-passwords-user-preferences#requirements) in order for you to log in and to receive information from New Relic. If you are unable to create your account successfully, or if you have password or other login problems, review these troubleshooting suggestions to try to identify a resolution.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="forgot-password"
    title="Forgot your password, or your password does not work."
  >
    If you have forgotten your New Relic account password, or if your password does not work, request a password reset from New Relic. If you have access to multiple New Relic logins, also ensure you are using the correct password for the login method you're using

    1. Go to [New Relic's login page](https://login.newrelic.com/login).
    2. Select **Forgot your password**.
    3. Type your account email address, and select **Send my reset link**.
    4. When you receive a confirmation email from New Relic, select the password reset link, and [follow New Relic's password requirements](/docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-maintenance/change-passwords-user-preferences#requirements) to complete the process to reset your password.

    <Callout variant="important">
      The password reset link expires after 12 hours. If you do not quickly receive an email from New Relic, check your [spam filters](/docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-setup/create-your-new-relic-account#email-whitelist), contact your organization's email administrator for troubleshooting suggestions, get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com).
    </Callout>
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="reset-password"
    title="Reset password."
  >
    If you forgot your own password or need to request a password reset for your account email, you can use New Relic's [self-service options](#forgot-password). Admin-level users cannot reset passwords for other users. If you need to reset someone else's password, get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="account-login-errors"
    title="Password error messages."
  >
    If you complete the signup process and are unable to log in to your account due to password error messages, get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com/home).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="expired-password"
    title="Password reset link expired."
  >
    If you want to change your password but you see a message that the password reset link expired, try using a private browser or clearing your browser cache and cookies.

    <Callout variant="important">
      The password reset link expires after 12 hours. If you do not quickly receive an email from New Relic after you select the reset link, check your [spam filters](/docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-setup/create-your-new-relic-account#email-whitelist), contact your organization's email administrator for troubleshooting suggestions, get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com).
    </Callout>
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="existing-user"
    title="Added existing user to another New Relic account."
  >
    If you're an existing New Relic account user and you have been [added to another account](/docs/accounts/install-new-relic/account-setup/use-multiple-accounts), you do not need to create a new password. Your existing password will work for each account, and you can [switch between accounts](/docs/accounts/install-new-relic/account-setup/use-multiple-accounts#switch-accounts) after logging in.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Email solutions [#solution-email]

New Relic requires a valid email address and a [valid password](/docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-maintenance/change-passwords-user-preferences#requirements) in order for you to log in and to receive information from New Relic. If you're unable to create your account successfully, or if you have email or other login problems, review these troubleshooting suggestions to try to identify a resolution.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="no-confirmation-email"
    title="Did not receive new account confirmation email."
  >
    When you first create your account, New Relic sends a confirmation email so you can complete the setup process and sign in. If you cannot locate your original account confirmation email:

    1. Go to New Relic's login page at **[login.newrelic.com/login](https://login.newrelic.com/login)**.
    2. Select **Forgot your password**.
    3. Type your account email address, and select **Send my password**.
    4. When New Relic's system returns an email message, select the link in it to confirm your account again.

    If you do not receive an email from New Relic:

    * Check your [spam filters](/docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-setup/create-your-new-relic-account#email-whitelist). If applicable, [add New Relic to your email allow list](/docs/accounts/accounts/account-maintenance/account-email-settings#email-whitelist).
    * Get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com/home).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="forgot-email"
    title="Email address does not work or email error messages."
  >
    If you complete the signup process and are unable to log in to your account due to email or password error messages, get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com/home).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="account-exists"
    title="Received message that your email account already exists."
  >
    If you are trying to create a new account and receive a message that your email account already exists, get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com/home).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="link-redirect"
    title="Email link does not redirect to the password reset page."
  >
    If you have used your password reset link but are not redirected to the password reset page, troubleshoot the following:

    * Your password reset link has expired. You will need to [request a new link](#forgot-password) from the New Relic website.
    * You are experiencing a caching issue. Clear your browsing cache or use a private browsing window before trying the link again.

    <Callout variant="tip">
      **Private browsing**, also known as **incognito mode**, is a privacy feature to disable browsing history and the web cache. To open a private browsing window, you can use the keyboard shortcut `CTRL+Shift+N` on Windows and `Command+Shift+N` on Mac for most browsing applications.
    </Callout>

    If this still doesn't solve your problem, get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com/home).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="verify-email"
    title="Asked to verify email during login."
  >
    If your email is associated with multiple accounts, you will be given the option to verify your email during login. This will allow you to choose which account to access. If you do not verify your email address, New Relic will attempt to log you in with the most recently created user record associated with your email address.

    To avoid verifying your email during each login, click the **Remember Me** checkbox in the login screen.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## General system solutions [#solution-system]

Some general system problems and solutions: 

<CollapserGroup>

  <Collapser
    id="delete-account"
    title="Delete an account you recently created."
  >
    If you created a New Relic account unnecessarily and want to delete it, and if that account is a simple one, you may be able to delete it yourself. See [Delete simple organization](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-setup/downgradecancel-account/#cancel-simple-org).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="two-week-option"
    title="SAML single sign-on (SSO) problems prevent login."
  >
    If your organization uses a SAML Single Sign On (SSO) solution, you can skip the **Password** field when you log in. If you need to reset your password, contact your organization's system administrator or IT department as applicable.

    If you're an administrator who has recently enabled or made changes to your SAML SSO settings and are unable to log in, there might be an issue with your configuration. Customers on the [New Relic One user model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model-understand-user-structure) can use a special recovery flow to fix any issues. Visit [login.newrelic.com/recovery_access](http://login.newrelic.com/recovery_access) to bypass SSO and gain one-time access to your organization.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="failure-errors"
    title="System failure errors prevent login."
  >
    If you receive failure errors while trying to sign up, a third-party password manager may be triggering New Relic's spam trap. To work around this, try these solutions:

    * Bypass your password manager.
    * Use a different browser to sign up with New Relic.
    * Get support at [support.newrelic.com](https://support.newrelic.com/home).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Mobile device solutions [#mobile-errors]

If you are unable to log in from your mobile device, the new user authentication time frame may have expired. You must complete this process within 20 minutes of receiving New Relic's confirmation message for your mobile device.

To solve this problem, request another confirmation message to be sent to your device. Also, depending on your New Relic account, additional installation or authentication steps may be required for your [iOS](/docs/mobile-apps/new-relic-ios-app/features/ios-user-settings-authentication) or [Android](/docs/mobile-apps/new-relic-android-app/features/android-authentication) app account.

## Solutions for other situations [#solution-other]

Here are suggestions for other unique situations.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="partner-errors"
    title="Unable to log in from your New Relic partner account."
  >
    With [partner accounts](/docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/saml-single-sign/new-relic-partners-saml-sso), SAML SSO authentication to sign in to New Relic is controlled by the partnership. [Depending on the partnership](/docs/accounts-partnerships/partnerships/partner-based-installation/log-install-new-relic-partners), you may or may not be able to log in directly to New Relic.
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>
