src/content/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/introduction-transaction-traces.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction to transaction traces
tags:
  - APM
  - Transactions
  - Transaction traces
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: In APM, transaction traces record in-depth data from your application's slowest HTTP requests and database queries.
redirects:
  - /docs/general/viewing_historical_data
  - /docs/transactions-dashboards/xray-sessions
  - /docs/site/xray-sessions
  - /docs/transactions-menu/xray-sessions
  - /docs/transactions-dashboards/xray-session-overview-dashboard
  - /docs/site/xray-session-overview-dashboard
  - /docs/transactions-menu/xray-session-overview-dashboard
  - /docs/transactions-dashboards/viewing-an-xray-session
  - /docs/site/viewing-an-xray-session
  - /docs/transactions-menu/viewing-an-xray-session
  - /docs/transactions-dashboards/starting-or-stopping-an-xray-session
  - /docs/site/starting-or-stopping-an-xray-session
  - /docs/transactions-menu/starting-or-stopping-an-xray-session
  - /docs/features/execution-time-rows-in-transaction-traces
  - /docs/general/execution-time-rows-in-transaction-traces
  - /docs/features/transaction-traces
  - /docs/traces/transaction-traces
  - /docs/apm/transactions-menu/x-ray-sessions/x-ray-sessions
  - /docs/apm/transactions-menu/x-ray-sessions/starting-stopping-or-deleting-x-ray-session
  - /docs/apm/transactions-menu/x-ray-sessions/viewing-x-ray-session
  - /docs/apm/transactions-menu/x-ray-sessions/x-ray-session-overview-dashboard
  - /docs/apm/traces/transaction-traces/transaction-traces
  - /docs/apm/selected-transactions/x-ray-sessions/starting-stopping-or-deleting-x-ray-session
  - /docs/apm/selected-transactions/x-ray-sessions/viewing-x-ray-session
  - /docs/apm/selected-transactions/x-ray-sessions/x-ray-session-overview-dashboard
  - /docs/apm/transactions/x-ray-sessions/x-ray-session-overview-dashboard
  - /docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/viewing-transaction-traces
  - /docs/traces/viewing-transaction-traces
  - /docs/apm/traces/transaction-traces/viewing-transaction-traces
  - /docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/transaction-traces
  - /docs/apm/transactions/x-ray-sessions/introduction-x-ray-sessions
  - /docs/apm/transactions/x-ray-sessions/x-ray-session-overview-page
  - /docs/apm/transactions/x-ray-sessions/viewing-x-ray-session
  - /docs/apm/transactions/x-ray-sessions/x-ray-session-thread-profile-page
  - /docs/apm/transactions/x-ray-sessions/starting-stopping-or-deleting-x-ray-session
---

In [APM](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm), a **transaction trace** gives a detailed snapshot of a single [transaction](/docs/apm/transactions/intro-transactions/transactions-new-relic-apm) in your application. A transaction trace records the available function calls, database calls, and external calls. You can use transaction traces to troubleshoot performance issues and to get detailed low-level insight into how your app is working.

## What transactions record traces [#basics]

In APM, a transaction trace records the segments that make up a [transaction](/docs/apm/transactions/intro-transactions/transactions-new-relic-apm). Because they give you more detail, you can use transaction traces to analyze and [troubleshoot performance issues](#troubleshoot-example).

Here are the default rules that govern which transactions a New Relic agent traces:

* Over the minute-long [harvest cycle](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/getting-started/glossary#harvest-cycle), all transactions that violate the threshold (either four times your [Apdex T value](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/apdex/apdex-measuring-user-satisfaction) or a specific number of seconds) are added to a pool of transactions.
* At the end of that minute, the New Relic agent selects the slowest transaction in that pool and performs a transaction trace on it.

These are the general rules, but there are some agent-specific differences. For example:

* The Java agent collects occasional non-slow transactions.
* If one transaction is frequently traced, some agents will select other transactions to give a more diverse sampling.

If you [don't see traces in your account](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/troubleshooting-not-seeing-transaction-traces), it's possible that no transactions meet the necessary criteria. In this situation, you can adjust [transaction trace settings](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/configure-transaction-traces) to ensure some transactions will be traced.

If you use [Synthetic](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/new-relic-synthetics), you will likely have [Synthetic monitor traces](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/collect-synthetic-transaction-traces). Synthetic traces can happen more frequently than APM traces, potentially several per minute.

## Configure transaction traces [#configure]

To configure or edit trace settings, see the procedures for:

* [Transaction traces](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/configure-transaction-traces)
* [Key transaction traces](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/configure-transaction-traces#key-txns)

## View transaction traces in UI [#find-view]

To view transaction traces:

1. Do one of the following:
   * New Relic Explorer: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Explorer > (select an app) > Monitor > Transactions**.
   * APM: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > APM > (select an app) > Monitor > Transactions**.
2. In the **Transaction traces** section, click transaction traces to view [additional details](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/transaction-traces-summary-page).

## Troubleshoot an issue with transaction traces [#troubleshoot-example]

If you expect to see transaction traces but do not see them, follow the [troubleshooting procedures](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/troubleshooting-not-seeing-transaction-traces).

For more information about using transaction traces, slow queries, and service maps to solve performance issues, see [Analyze performance issues](/docs/apm/applications-menu/features/analyze-database-instance-level-performance-issues).

Commit message:

feat(Logs in context xrefs): More xrefs in APM docs
The APM docs didn't explain that logs in context is available, so I'm adding more details to selected docs per DOC-7477

src/content/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/introduction-transaction-traces.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction to transaction traces
tags:
  - APM
  - Transactions
  - Transaction traces
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: In APM, transaction traces record in-depth data from your application's slowest HTTP requests and database queries.
redirects:
  - /docs/general/viewing_historical_data
  - /docs/transactions-dashboards/xray-sessions
  - /docs/site/xray-sessions
  - /docs/transactions-menu/xray-sessions
  - /docs/transactions-dashboards/xray-session-overview-dashboard
  - /docs/site/xray-session-overview-dashboard
  - /docs/transactions-menu/xray-session-overview-dashboard
  - /docs/transactions-dashboards/viewing-an-xray-session
  - /docs/site/viewing-an-xray-session
  - /docs/transactions-menu/viewing-an-xray-session
  - /docs/transactions-dashboards/starting-or-stopping-an-xray-session
  - /docs/site/starting-or-stopping-an-xray-session
  - /docs/transactions-menu/starting-or-stopping-an-xray-session
  - /docs/features/execution-time-rows-in-transaction-traces
  - /docs/general/execution-time-rows-in-transaction-traces
  - /docs/features/transaction-traces
  - /docs/traces/transaction-traces
  - /docs/apm/transactions-menu/x-ray-sessions/x-ray-sessions
  - /docs/apm/transactions-menu/x-ray-sessions/starting-stopping-or-deleting-x-ray-session
  - /docs/apm/transactions-menu/x-ray-sessions/viewing-x-ray-session
  - /docs/apm/transactions-menu/x-ray-sessions/x-ray-session-overview-dashboard
  - /docs/apm/traces/transaction-traces/transaction-traces
  - /docs/apm/selected-transactions/x-ray-sessions/starting-stopping-or-deleting-x-ray-session
  - /docs/apm/selected-transactions/x-ray-sessions/viewing-x-ray-session
  - /docs/apm/selected-transactions/x-ray-sessions/x-ray-session-overview-dashboard
  - /docs/apm/transactions/x-ray-sessions/x-ray-session-overview-dashboard
  - /docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/viewing-transaction-traces
  - /docs/traces/viewing-transaction-traces
  - /docs/apm/traces/transaction-traces/viewing-transaction-traces
  - /docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/transaction-traces
  - /docs/apm/transactions/x-ray-sessions/introduction-x-ray-sessions
  - /docs/apm/transactions/x-ray-sessions/x-ray-session-overview-page
  - /docs/apm/transactions/x-ray-sessions/viewing-x-ray-session
  - /docs/apm/transactions/x-ray-sessions/x-ray-session-thread-profile-page
  - /docs/apm/transactions/x-ray-sessions/starting-stopping-or-deleting-x-ray-session
---

In [APM](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm), a **transaction trace** gives a detailed snapshot of a single [transaction](/docs/apm/transactions/intro-transactions/transactions-new-relic-apm) in your application. A transaction trace records the available function calls, database calls, and external calls. You can use transaction traces to troubleshoot performance issues and to get detailed low-level insight into how your app is working.

## What transactions record traces [#basics]

In APM, a transaction trace records the segments that make up a [transaction](/docs/apm/transactions/intro-transactions/transactions-new-relic-apm). Because they give you more detail, you can use transaction traces to analyze and [troubleshoot performance issues](#troubleshoot-example).

Here are the default rules that govern which transactions a New Relic agent traces:

* Over the minute-long [harvest cycle](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/getting-started/glossary#harvest-cycle), all transactions that violate the threshold (either four times your [Apdex T value](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/apdex/apdex-measuring-user-satisfaction) or a specific number of seconds) are added to a pool of transactions.
* At the end of that minute, the New Relic agent selects the slowest transaction in that pool and performs a transaction trace on it.

These are the general rules, but there are some agent-specific differences. For example:

* The Java agent collects occasional non-slow transactions.
* If one transaction is frequently traced, some agents will select other transactions to give a more diverse sampling.

If you [don't see traces in your account](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/troubleshooting-not-seeing-transaction-traces), it's possible that no transactions meet the necessary criteria. In this situation, you can adjust [transaction trace settings](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/configure-transaction-traces) to ensure some transactions will be traced.

If you use [Synthetic](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/getting-started/new-relic-synthetics), you will likely have [Synthetic monitor traces](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/using-monitors/collect-synthetic-transaction-traces). Synthetic traces can happen more frequently than APM traces, potentially several per minute.

## Configure transaction traces [#configure]

To configure or edit trace settings, see the procedures for:

* [Transaction traces](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/configure-transaction-traces)
* [Key transaction traces](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/configure-transaction-traces#key-txns)

## View transaction traces in UI [#find-view]

To view transaction traces:

1. Do one of the following:
   * New Relic Explorer: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Explorer > (select an app) > Monitor > Transactions**.
   * APM: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > APM > (select an app) > Monitor > Transactions**.
2. In the **Transaction traces** section, click transaction traces to view [additional details](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/transaction-traces-summary-page).

## Examine logs for trace details [#logs-context]

You can bring your logs and application's data together to make troubleshooting easier and faster. With [logs in context](/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents/), you can see log messages related to your errors and traces directly in your app's UI.

1. From the **Transactions** page, click on a trace to go to the [**Trace details** page](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/transaction-traces-trace-details-page).
2. From the trace details page, click **See logs**.
3. To view details related to an individual log message, click directly on the message.

You can also see logs in context of your [infrastructure data](/docs/logs/forward-logs/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent/), such as Kubernetes clusters. No need to switch to another UI page in New Relic One.

## Troubleshoot an issue with transaction traces [#troubleshoot-example]

If you expect to see transaction traces but do not see them, follow the [troubleshooting procedures](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/troubleshooting-not-seeing-transaction-traces).

For more information about using transaction traces, slow queries, and service maps to solve performance issues, see [Analyze performance issues](/docs/apm/applications-menu/features/analyze-database-instance-level-performance-issues).
