src/content/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/original-account-structure.mdx, before:

---
title: Organization and account structure (original user model)
metaDescription: For New Relic customers on our original user model, an explanation of the account structure. 
---
<Callout variant="important">
This doc is about organizations on our original user model, not the [New Relic One model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-structure/new-relic-account-structure/). [Learn more about the difference.](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models) 
</Callout>

Since July 30, 2020, new signups to New Relic are on our New Relic One user model. Older customers who have not yet [migrated to the new model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/user-migration/) are still on our original user model. The original user model will be increasingly deprecated as more New Relic customers are migrated to the new model. 

<Callout variant="important">
Note that the user model is not directly related to our two different [pricing models](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#pricing-plans). 
</Callout>

Here are some important aspects of the original user model and links to important docs: 

* Our original user model did not have firm boundaries between organizations/customers, and was much more user-centric. This meant that a user could be granted access to data from different organizations, and could access that data from a single login. [Read more about the differences between the old and new model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models). 
* On the original user model, a user’s access to accounts is based on: a) being added to a specific account, or b) having access to a parent account and inheriting access to that account’s child accounts. See our [original user management docs](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles). See an [explanation of how parent/child accounts work](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/mastersub-account-structure).

Commit message:

feat(Docs): Finished adding redirects

src/content/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/original-account-structure.mdx, after:

---
title: Organization and account structure (original user model)
metaDescription: For New Relic customers on our original user model, an explanation of the account structure.
redirects:
  - /docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles
---
<Callout variant="important">
This doc is about organizations on our original user model, not the [New Relic One model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-structure/new-relic-account-structure/). [Learn more about the difference.](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models) 
</Callout>

Since July 30, 2020, new signups to New Relic are on our New Relic One user model. Older customers who have not yet [migrated to the new model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/user-migration/) are still on our original user model. The original user model will be increasingly deprecated as more New Relic customers are migrated to the new model. 

<Callout variant="important">
Note that the user model is not directly related to our two different [pricing models](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#pricing-plans). 
</Callout>

Here are some important aspects of the original user model and links to important docs: 

* Our original user model did not have firm boundaries between organizations/customers, and was much more user-centric. This meant that a user could be granted access to data from different organizations, and could access that data from a single login. [Read more about the differences between the old and new model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models). 
* On the original user model, a user’s access to accounts is based on: a) being added to a specific account, or b) having access to a parent account and inheriting access to that account’s child accounts. See our [original user management docs](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles). See an [explanation of how parent/child accounts work](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/mastersub-account-structure).
