src/content/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/search-filter-entities.mdx, before:

---
title: Filter entities with the entity filter bar
tags:
  - New Relic
  - Use New Relic
  - Core concepts
metaDescription: "How to use the New Relic entity filter bar to filter your entities and save useful filtered views."
redirects:
freshnessValidatedDate: 2023-07-24
---

The entity filter bar lets you filter down to the monitored [entities](/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/what-entity-new-relic) you want to examine, and lets you save filters for later use.

<img
  title="filterbar.png"
  alt="filterbar.png"
  src="/images/platform_screenshot-crop_filtering-entities.webp"
/>

## Find the filter bar [#find]

The entity filter is located at the top of many New Relic UI pages. It's visible on the <DNT>**All entities**</DNT> view, which is the first thing you see when you [load New Relic](https://one.newrelic.com), and it's visible in our APM UI, our <InlinePopover type="browser"/> UI, our infrastructure UI, and more.

## Tips for using the filter bar [#tips]

Some tips for using the filter bar:

* Type in a <DNT>**string**</DNT> of characters and/or numbers (for example, an environment) to find any entity that has this string in their name or ID. When typing, the UI suggests items that coincide with the string you're entering, so you can select one of those from the dropdown. You can also filter by the name of the <DNT>**entity**</DNT>, the <DNT>**entity type**</DNT>, <DNT>**account ID**</DNT>, <DNT>**environment**</DNT>, or a [<DNT>**tag**</DNT>](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/tagging-use-tags-organize-group-what-you-monitor). Selection parameters, once created, have a blue background.
* If you filter using a string, the filter will have the `=` operator.
* If you filter using the dropdown menu, once the first element of the searched item (tag key or attribute) is entered, you need to select an operator (`=`, `!=`, `LIKE`, `NOT LIKE`, `IN`, `NOT IN`) for your filter.
* Once the operator is selected, complete the filter by selecting the value to complete the search item.

To add more filters, first you have to select an operator, `AND` or `OR`. Tips on using these:

* Use `AND` to indicate you want to restrict the selection removing entities from the list of results. You can also use the `AND` operator to add conditions that need to be met in the list of results, for example, <DNT>**entityType = Services `AND` location = APAC**</DNT>.
  * Note that <DNT>**entityType = Services `AND` entityType = Hosts**</DNT> doesn’t return any results, as entities can only have one type and no entity would match this condition.
* Use `OR` to add more entities to the selection. For example, the filter <DNT>**entityType = Services `OR` entityType = Hosts**</DNT> returns every entity you have access to that is of type `Services` or `Hosts`.

If your filter is very complex, try using [the NRQL query builder](https://one.newrelic.com/data-exploration/query-builder). For more information on NRQL queries, see [How to use NRQL](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-how-nrql-works).

Commit message:

Update entity filter bar documentation to reflect current UI

src/content/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/search-filter-entities.mdx, after:

---
title: Filter entities with the entity filter bar
tags:
  - New Relic
  - Use New Relic
  - Core concepts
metaDescription: "How to use the New Relic entity filter bar to filter your entities and save useful filtered views."
redirects:
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

The entity filter bar helps you quickly find and filter the monitored [entities](/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/what-entity-new-relic) you want to examine across New Relic's interface.

<img
  title="Entity filter bar in Catalogs"
  alt="Current entity filter bar interface showing search and filter options"
  src="/images/Catalogs.webp"
/>

## Locate the filter bar [#find]

The entity filter bar is prominently displayed at the top of key New Relic pages including:
- <DNT>**Catalogs**</DNT> page for <DNT>**Applications**</DNT>, <DNT>**Repositories**</DNT>, and <DNT>**Infrastructure**</DNT>.
- APM service pages.
- <InlinePopover type="browser"/> monitoring pages.
- Infrastructure monitoring pages and many more.

## Using the filter bar [#usage]

The current entity filter bar provides several filtering options:

### Search by entity name
Use the <DNT>**Search by entity name**</DNT> field to quickly find entities: Type in a string of characters (for example, an environment) to find any entity that contains this string in its name. All matched results display in the UI.

### Filter dropdowns
Apply specific filters using the dropdown menus:
* <DNT>**Entity Type**</DNT>: The Entity Type dropdown displays entity types that are associated with your current search query, allowing you to select specific types like applications, services, or hosts to further narrow your results.
* <DNT>**AI Tool**</DNT>: The AI Tool filter shows available AI tools and integrations used by the filtered entities.
* <DNT>**Team**</DNT>: The Team dropdown displays only teams that have ownership or assignment of entities in your current filtered set, making it easy to focus on entities managed by specific teams within your organization.
* Additional filter options may appear based on your account configuration. To do this,
  1. Click **+**.
  2. From the Filter dropdown, select an attribute.
  3. Select an operator: =, !=, LIKE, or NOT LIKE.
  4. Select a value to complete the filter.
  5. Click **Add**.

For advanced querying and analysis, consider using [the NRQL query builder](https://one.newrelic.com/data-exploration/query-builder). For more information on NRQL queries, refer [How to use NRQL](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-how-nrql-works).
