src/content/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start.mdx, before:

---
title: OpenTelemetry quick start
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Open source telemetry integrations
  - OpenTelemetry
metaDescription: Get started easily with our OpenTelemetry quick-start guide.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started-opentelemetry-new-relic
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/set-opentelemetry-new-relic
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start-guide
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-architecture-recipes/
---

OpenTelemetry is a flexible toolkit that you can implement in a variety of ways. We recommend a basic four-step approach for setting up OpenTelemetry with New Relic. Here's an overview of the process, followed by details for each step.

1. [Prerequisites](#prereqs)
2. [Instrument your service with OpenTelemetry](#instrument)
3. [Export your telemetry data to New Relic](#export)
4. [View your data in the New Relic UI](#view-data)

## Step 1. Prerequisites [#prereqs]

First things first:

* If we don’t already know you, sign up for a free [New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup).
* Copy your [account license key](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/api-keys-ui.launcher).

## Step 2. Instrument your service with OpenTelemetry [#instrument]

To get started, you instrument your service with OpenTelemetry. OpenTelemetry has language-specific products and SDKs to help you. Many languages offer out-the-box instrumentation for common libraries and frameworks. Each language also provides an API for further instrumenting your service manually.

Go to the repository for your language and follow the instructions to instrument your service. When you're done, return here to complete [Step 3. Export your telemetry data to New Relic](#export).

* [C++](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-cpp)
* [Erlang](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-erlang)
* [Go](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go)
* [Java](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java)
* [Javascript/Node.js](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js)
* [.NET](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-dotnet)
* [PHP](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-php)
* [Python](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python)
* [Ruby](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby)
* [Rust](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-rust)
* [Swift](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-swift)
* [...See a complete list of languages in GitHub](https://github.com/open-telemetry)

## Step 3. Export your telemetry data to New Relic [#export]

The [OpenTelemetry Protocol](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/protocol/otlp.md), or OTLP for short, is a general purpose telemetry data delivery protocol designed for the OpenTelemetry project. This protocol describes how to encode and transmit telemetry data, which makes it a natural choice for data transport. Each language SDK provides an OTLP exporter you can configure to export data over OTLP. 

In this step, we focus on how to configure an OTLP exporter in your service to export data directly to New Relic. If you prefer to export your data first to an OpenTelemetry collector, we have separate [instructions](#collector). 

![Diagram showing OpenTelemetry using New Relic's OTLP endpoint.](./images/native_otlp.svg "Diagram of OTLP endpoint")
<figcaption>Here's an example of sending data from your service directly to New Relic.</figcaption>

To complete this third step, first familiarize yourself with some required New Relic settings, and then complete the steps in the OTLP exporter documentation for your language.

### Review New Relic settings for exports [#review-settings]

Before you go to the external OTLP exporter documentation, consult the table below so you're ready to do the following: 

* Configure the OTLP exporter to add a header ( ```api-key``` ) whose value is your account license key.
* Based on your region, configure the endpoint where the exporter sends data to New Relic.  

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Region</th>
      <th>gRPC</th>
      <th>HTTP/1.1</th>
      <th>Endpoint</th>
      <th>API Header Name</th>
      <th>API Header Value</th>
      <th>TLS encryption required</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>US</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>❌</td>
      <td><a href="https://otlp.nr-data.net:4317" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://otlp.nr-data.net:4317</a></td>
      <td>`api-key`</td>
      <td><a href="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/api-keys-ui.launcher" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">License Key</a></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>EU</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>❌</td>
      <td><a href="https://otlp.eu01.nr-data.net:4317" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://otlp.eu01.nr-data.net:4317</a></td>
      <td>`api-key`</td>
      <td><a href="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/api-keys-ui.launcher" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">License Key</a></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

If you have FedRamp compliance constraints, see [FedRAMP-compliant endpoints](/docs/security/security-privacy/compliance/fedramp-compliant-endpoints/#otlp-api).

<Callout variant="important">
In Node.js, the [opentelemetry-collector-grpc](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/exporter-collector-grpc) library requires additional options to enable TLS.
</Callout>

### Complete the export configuration steps [#complete-configs]

Click on the link below for your language and complete the configuration steps. When you're done, return here to complete [Step 4. View your data in the New Relic UI](#view-data).

   * [C++](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-cpp/tree/master/exporters/otlp)
   * [Erlang](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-erlang/tree/master/apps/opentelemetry_exporter)
   * [Go](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp)
   * [Java](http://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation#getting-started)
   * [Javascript/Node.js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/exporter-collector)
   * [.NET](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-dotnet/tree/master/src/OpenTelemetry.Exporter.OpenTelemetryProtocol)
   * [PHP](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-php/blob/master/examples/AlwaysOnOTLPExample.php)
   * [Python](https://opentelemetry-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/exporter/otlp/otlp.html)
   * [Ruby](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby/tree/master/exporter/otlp)
   * [Rust](https://crates.io/crates/opentelemetry-otlp)
   * [Swift](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-swift/tree/master/Sources/Exporters/OpenTelemetryProtocol)
   * [...Find additional OTLP language support in GitHub](https://github.com/open-telemetry)

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="collector"
    title="Export data to an OpenTelemetry Collector (optional) "
  >
The [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/) is a configurable and extensible software component to receive, process, and export telemetry data. When you set up a collector, it can operate as a gateway or as an agent:

* **Gateway:** The collector receives data from a variety of sources and applies standard processing before exporting to some backend. 
* **Agent:** The collector is deployed on each host in an environment and can collect telemetry data about the host and processes running on it.

When you use a collector, you start by following the same routine as above for setting up OTLP in your service. In this case, instead of exporting data directly to New Relic, you export through a collector that you set up. In the collector, you configure the [OTLP exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/otlpexporter) to export data to New Relic.

When your data goes through a collector, the transport looks like this:

![Diagram showing OpenTelemetry using the OpenTelemetry Collector and New Relic's OTLP endpoint.](./images/native_otlp_with_collector.svg "Diagram of OTLP with collector")

Here's a Docker example of how to set up and run an OpenTelemetry collector with the collector YAML:

1. Save the following as `otel-config.yaml`:

```
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
      http:

processors:
  batch:

exporters:
  otlp:
    endpoint: ${OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT}
    headers:
      api-key: ${NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY}

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [otlp]
      processors: [batch]
      exporters: [otlp]
    metrics:
      receivers: [otlp]
      processors: [batch]
      exporters: [otlp]
    logs:
      receivers: [otlp]
      processors: [batch]
      exporters: [otlp]
```
2. Run the OpenTelemetry collector, making sure you replace <var>OTLP_ENDPOINT_HERE</var> with the appropriate [endpoint](#review-settings) and replace <var>YOUR_KEY_HERE</var> with your [Account License Key](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/api-keys-ui.launcher):

```
export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=<var>OTLP_ENDPOINT_HERE</var>
export NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY=<var>YOUR_KEY_HERE</var>

docker run --rm \
  -e OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT \
  -e NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY \
  -p 4317:4317 \
  -v "${PWD}/otel-config.yaml":/otel-config.yaml \
  --config otel-config.yaml \
  --name otelcol \
  otel/opentelemetry-collector
```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Step 4. View your data in the New Relic UI [#view-data]

Once you’ve instrumented your service and configured it to export its data to New Relic, watch the New Relic One user interface for your [traces](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.explorer?overlay=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJkYXRhLWV4cGxvcmF0aW9uLnF1ZXJ5LWJ1aWxkZXIiLCJpbml0aWFsQWN0aXZlSW50ZXJmYWNlIjoibnJxbEVkaXRvciIsImluaXRpYWxOcnFsVmFsdWUiOiIiLCJpbml0aWFsUXVlcmllcyI6W3sibnJxbCI6IkZST00gU3BhbiBTRUxFQ1QgY291bnQoKikgd2hlcmUgbmV3cmVsaWMuc291cmNlPSclb3RscCUnIFRJTUVTRVJJRVMifV0sImluaXRpYWxDaGFydFNldHRpbmdzIjp7ImNoYXJ0VHlwZSI6IkNIQVJUX0xJTkUiLCJsaW1pdCI6NzU0MiwibGlua2VkRW50aXR5R3VpZCI6bnVsbCwibGlua2VkRGFzaGJvYXJkSWQiOm51bGwsInlTY2FsZSI6eyJzdGF0aWMiOmZhbHNlLCJkb21haW4iOltudWxsLG51bGxdfSwieVplcm8iOnRydWV9fQo=), [metrics](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.explorer?overlay=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), and [logs](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.explorer?overlay=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJkYXRhLWV4cGxvcmF0aW9uLnF1ZXJ5LWJ1aWxkZXIiLCJpbml0aWFsQWN0aXZlSW50ZXJmYWNlIjoibnJxbEVkaXRvciIsImluaXRpYWxOcnFsVmFsdWUiOiIiLCJpbml0aWFsUXVlcmllcyI6W3sibnJxbCI6IkZST00gTG9nIFNFTEVDVCBjb3VudCgqKSB3aGVyZSBuZXdyZWxpYy5zb3VyY2U9JyVvdGxwJScgVElNRVNFUklFUyJ9XSwiaW5pdGlhbENoYXJ0U2V0dGluZ3MiOnsiY2hhcnRUeXBlIjoiQ0hBUlRfTElORSIsImxpbWl0Ijo3NTQyLCJsaW5rZWRFbnRpdHlHdWlkIjpudWxsLCJsaW5rZWREYXNoYm9hcmRJZCI6bnVsbCwieVNjYWxlIjp7InN0YXRpYyI6ZmFsc2UsImRvbWFpbiI6W251bGwsbnVsbF19LCJ5WmVybyI6dHJ1ZX19Cg==)!

The UI for OpenTelemetry has some similarities to the APM agent UI, so if you are familiar with that, you can go right to the UI. If you need help understanding your OpenTelemetry UI options or how to make sure your data appears in the UI, see [View your OpenTelemetry data in New Relic](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/view-your-opentelemetry-data-new-relic).

## What's next? [#next]

After you do your initial setup, check out our 
[best-practices](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-concepts/) guide for tips 
about various configurations to improve your use of OpenTelemetry and 
New Relic.

Commit message:

Add a section about New Relic OTel examples

src/content/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start.mdx, after:

---
title: OpenTelemetry quick start
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Open source telemetry integrations
  - OpenTelemetry
metaDescription: Get started easily with our OpenTelemetry quick-start guide.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/get-started-opentelemetry-new-relic
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/set-opentelemetry-new-relic
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-quick-start-guide
  - /docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-architecture-recipes/
---

OpenTelemetry is a flexible toolkit that you can implement in a variety of ways. We recommend a basic four-step approach for setting up OpenTelemetry with New Relic. Here's an overview of the process, followed by details for each step.

1. [Prerequisites](#prereqs)
2. [Instrument your service with OpenTelemetry](#instrument)
3. [Export your telemetry data to New Relic](#export)
4. [View your data in the New Relic UI](#view-data)

## Step 1. Prerequisites [#prereqs]

First things first:

* If we don’t already know you, sign up for a free [New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup).
* Copy your [account license key](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/api-keys-ui.launcher).

## Step 2. Instrument your service with OpenTelemetry [#instrument]

To get started, you instrument your service with OpenTelemetry. OpenTelemetry has language-specific products and SDKs to help you. Many languages offer out-the-box instrumentation for common libraries and frameworks. Each language also provides an API for further instrumenting your service manually.

Go to the repository for your language and follow the instructions to instrument your service. When you're done, return here to complete [Step 3. Export your telemetry data to New Relic](#export).

* [C++](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-cpp)
* [Erlang](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-erlang)
* [Go](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go)
* [Java](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java)
* [Javascript/Node.js](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js)
* [.NET](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-dotnet)
* [PHP](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-php)
* [Python](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python)
* [Ruby](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby)
* [Rust](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-rust)
* [Swift](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-swift)
* [...See a complete list of languages in GitHub](https://github.com/open-telemetry)

## Step 3. Export your telemetry data to New Relic [#export]

The [OpenTelemetry Protocol](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/protocol/otlp.md), or OTLP for short, is a general purpose telemetry data delivery protocol designed for the OpenTelemetry project. This protocol describes how to encode and transmit telemetry data, which makes it a natural choice for data transport. Each language SDK provides an OTLP exporter you can configure to export data over OTLP. 

In this step, we focus on how to configure an OTLP exporter in your service to export data directly to New Relic. If you prefer to export your data first to an OpenTelemetry collector, we have separate [instructions](#collector). 

![Diagram showing OpenTelemetry using New Relic's OTLP endpoint.](./images/native_otlp.svg "Diagram of OTLP endpoint")
<figcaption>Here's an example of sending data from your service directly to New Relic.</figcaption>

To complete this third step, first familiarize yourself with some required New Relic settings, and then complete the steps in the OTLP exporter documentation for your language.

### Review New Relic settings for exports [#review-settings]

Before you go to the external OTLP exporter documentation, consult the table below so you're ready to do the following: 

* Configure the OTLP exporter to add a header ( ```api-key``` ) whose value is your account license key.
* Based on your region, configure the endpoint where the exporter sends data to New Relic.  

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Region</th>
      <th>gRPC</th>
      <th>HTTP/1.1</th>
      <th>Endpoint</th>
      <th>API Header Name</th>
      <th>API Header Value</th>
      <th>TLS encryption required</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>US</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>❌</td>
      <td><a href="https://otlp.nr-data.net:4317" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://otlp.nr-data.net:4317</a></td>
      <td>`api-key`</td>
      <td><a href="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/api-keys-ui.launcher" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">License Key</a></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>EU</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>❌</td>
      <td><a href="https://otlp.eu01.nr-data.net:4317" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://otlp.eu01.nr-data.net:4317</a></td>
      <td>`api-key`</td>
      <td><a href="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/api-keys-ui.launcher" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">License Key</a></td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

If you have FedRamp compliance constraints, see [FedRAMP-compliant endpoints](/docs/security/security-privacy/compliance/fedramp-compliant-endpoints/#otlp-api).

<Callout variant="important">
In Node.js, the [opentelemetry-collector-grpc](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/exporter-collector-grpc) library requires additional options to enable TLS.
</Callout>

### Complete the export configuration steps [#complete-configs]

Click on the link below for your language and complete the configuration steps. When you're done, return here to complete [Step 4. View your data in the New Relic UI](#view-data).

   * [C++](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-cpp/tree/master/exporters/otlp)
   * [Erlang](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-erlang/tree/master/apps/opentelemetry_exporter)
   * [Go](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp)
   * [Java](http://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation#getting-started)
   * [Javascript/Node.js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/exporter-collector)
   * [.NET](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-dotnet/tree/master/src/OpenTelemetry.Exporter.OpenTelemetryProtocol)
   * [PHP](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-php/blob/master/examples/AlwaysOnOTLPExample.php)
   * [Python](https://opentelemetry-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/exporter/otlp/otlp.html)
   * [Ruby](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby/tree/master/exporter/otlp)
   * [Rust](https://crates.io/crates/opentelemetry-otlp)
   * [Swift](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-swift/tree/master/Sources/Exporters/OpenTelemetryProtocol)
   * [...Find additional OTLP language support in GitHub](https://github.com/open-telemetry)

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="collector"
    title="Export data to an OpenTelemetry Collector (optional) "
  >
The [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/) is a configurable and extensible software component to receive, process, and export telemetry data. When you set up a collector, it can operate as a gateway or as an agent:

* **Gateway:** The collector receives data from a variety of sources and applies standard processing before exporting to some backend. 
* **Agent:** The collector is deployed on each host in an environment and can collect telemetry data about the host and processes running on it.

When you use a collector, you start by following the same routine as above for setting up OTLP in your service. In this case, instead of exporting data directly to New Relic, you export through a collector that you set up. In the collector, you configure the [OTLP exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/otlpexporter) to export data to New Relic.

When your data goes through a collector, the transport looks like this:

![Diagram showing OpenTelemetry using the OpenTelemetry Collector and New Relic's OTLP endpoint.](./images/native_otlp_with_collector.svg "Diagram of OTLP with collector")

Here's a Docker example of how to set up and run an OpenTelemetry collector with the collector YAML:

1. Save the following as `otel-config.yaml`:

```
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
      http:

processors:
  batch:

exporters:
  otlp:
    endpoint: ${OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT}
    headers:
      api-key: ${NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY}

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [otlp]
      processors: [batch]
      exporters: [otlp]
    metrics:
      receivers: [otlp]
      processors: [batch]
      exporters: [otlp]
    logs:
      receivers: [otlp]
      processors: [batch]
      exporters: [otlp]
```
2. Run the OpenTelemetry collector, making sure you replace <var>OTLP_ENDPOINT_HERE</var> with the appropriate [endpoint](#review-settings) and replace <var>YOUR_KEY_HERE</var> with your [Account License Key](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/api-keys-ui.launcher):

```
export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=<var>OTLP_ENDPOINT_HERE</var>
export NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY=<var>YOUR_KEY_HERE</var>

docker run --rm \
  -e OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT \
  -e NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY \
  -p 4317:4317 \
  -v "${PWD}/otel-config.yaml":/otel-config.yaml \
  --config otel-config.yaml \
  --name otelcol \
  otel/opentelemetry-collector
```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Step 4. View your data in the New Relic UI [#view-data]

Once you’ve instrumented your service and configured it to export its data to New Relic, watch the New Relic One user interface for your [traces](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.explorer?overlay=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), [metrics](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.explorer?overlay=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), and [logs](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.explorer?overlay=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)!

The UI for OpenTelemetry has some similarities to the APM agent UI, so if you are familiar with that, you can go right to the UI. If you need help understanding your OpenTelemetry UI options or how to make sure your data appears in the UI, see [View your OpenTelemetry data in New Relic](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/view-your-opentelemetry-data-new-relic).

## View New Relic OpenTelemetry Examples

View some of [our examples](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-opentelemetry-examples) for using OpenTelemetry with New Relic. 

## What's next? [#next]

After you do your initial setup, check out our 
[best-practices](/docs/integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-concepts/) guide for tips 
about various configurations to improve your use of OpenTelemetry and 
New Relic.
