src/content/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-query-tutorials/nrql-group-results-across-time.mdx, before:

---
title: 'NRQL: Group results across time'
tags:
  - Query your data
  - 'NRQL: New Relic Query Language'
  - NRQL query tutorials
metaDescription: 'New Relic NRQL: how to bucket your data into segments of time with the FACET clause.'
redirects:
  - /docs/insights/new-relic-insights/features/cohort-analysis
  - /docs/insights/new-relic-insights/features/cohort-analysis-grouping-results-across-time
  - /docs/insights/using-insights-ui/advanced-ui-tasks/cohort-analysis-facet-group-results-across-time
  - /docs/insights/using-insights-ui/filter-segment/cohort-analysis-facet-group-results-across-time
  - /docs/insights/using-insights-ui/time-settings/cohort-analysis-facet-group-results-across-time
  - /docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-query-examples/cohort-analysis-facet-group-results-across-time
  - /docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-query-examples/group-results-across-time
  - /docs/query-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-query-examples/group-results-across-time
---

With [NRQL](/docs/query-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/getting-started/introduction-nrql), you can create queries that group results across time. For example, you can group results together based on timestamps by separating them into buckets that cover a specified range of dates and times.

When using [time functions](/docs/insights/use-insights-ui/time-settings/set-time-range-insights-dashboards-charts) in NRQL queries, the results are returned in UTC. To adjust the results to your time zone, include the [`WITH TIMEZONE` clause](/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-timezone) in your query.

## Facet your NRQL query time range [#cohorts]

To create your NRQL query, use a [`FACET` clause](/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-facett) with a bucket function that works with a timestamp attribute. Run a standard `FACET` query, but instead of faceting by an attribute, facet by time. For example:

```
SELECT count(*) FROM PageView SINCE 1 day ago FACET monthOf(account_created)
```

To perform multiple functions within the same query, use NRQL's multi-facet capability:

```
SELECT count(*) FROM PageView SINCE 1 day ago FACET dateOf(account_created), monthOf(account_created)
```

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th width={210}>
        **Time-based functions**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Description**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `yearOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the year of a timestamp.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `quarterOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the quarter of the year. The returned value includes both the quarter and the year.

        Example: `Q1 2014`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `monthOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the month and year of the timestamp.

        Example: `July 2014`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `weekOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the week the timestamp occurred by naming the month and day of that week's Monday.

        Example: `Week of January 15`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `weekdayOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the day of the week of the timestamp. The returned value loops back at the end of the week, allowing you to look at trends by weekday over time.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dateOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the date of the timestamp. The returned value includes month, day and year.

        Example: `July 15, 2014`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dayOfMonthOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the numeric date within a single month of the timestamp, a value from 1 to 31. The returned value does not include the month.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `hourOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the hour of the timestamp.

        The returned value does not include a prepended 0 for hours between 1am and 9am. This differs from functions and clauses such as `SINCE`, which accept these hours with a 0 at the start.

        Examples: `6:00`, `12:00`, `18:00`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="facet-time-example"
    title="Group results by month"
  >
    To group all results based on the month, use the `monthOf` function. In this example, the NRQL query includes a function (`count(*)`), a data type (`PageView`), a time frame (`SINCE 1 day ago`), and a time facet (`monthOf(attribute)`).

    ```
    SELECT count(*) FROM PageView SINCE 1 day ago FACET monthOf(account_created)
    ```

    Running the query returns a table of results by month.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="facet-other-examples"
    title="Other grouping examples with FACET clause"
  >
    You can run NRQL queries to group your data in other ways, not just time. For additional examples, see the [NRQL `FACET` documentation](/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-facet).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

Commit message:

Added advice on creating charts with time functions.
When charting a time function, if you don't specify "until", the StackBar chart may split time into concatenations.
I have described how to specify "today" or "this month" with until.

src/content/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-query-tutorials/nrql-group-results-across-time.mdx, after:

---
title: 'NRQL: Group results across time'
tags:
  - Query your data
  - 'NRQL: New Relic Query Language'
  - NRQL query tutorials
metaDescription: 'New Relic NRQL: how to bucket your data into segments of time with the FACET clause.'
redirects:
  - /docs/insights/new-relic-insights/features/cohort-analysis
  - /docs/insights/new-relic-insights/features/cohort-analysis-grouping-results-across-time
  - /docs/insights/using-insights-ui/advanced-ui-tasks/cohort-analysis-facet-group-results-across-time
  - /docs/insights/using-insights-ui/filter-segment/cohort-analysis-facet-group-results-across-time
  - /docs/insights/using-insights-ui/time-settings/cohort-analysis-facet-group-results-across-time
  - /docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-query-examples/cohort-analysis-facet-group-results-across-time
  - /docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-query-examples/group-results-across-time
  - /docs/query-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-query-examples/group-results-across-time
---

With [NRQL](/docs/query-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/getting-started/introduction-nrql), you can create queries that group results across time. For example, you can group results together based on timestamps by separating them into buckets that cover a specified range of dates and times.

When using [time functions](/docs/insights/use-insights-ui/time-settings/set-time-range-insights-dashboards-charts) in NRQL queries, the results are returned in UTC. To adjust the results to your time zone, include the [`WITH TIMEZONE` clause](/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-timezone) in your query.

## Facet your NRQL query time range [#cohorts]

To create your NRQL query, use a [`FACET` clause](/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-facett) with a bucket function that works with a timestamp attribute. Run a standard `FACET` query, but instead of faceting by an attribute, facet by time. For example:

```
SELECT count(*) FROM PageView SINCE 1 day ago FACET monthOf(account_created)
```

To perform multiple functions within the same query, use NRQL's multi-facet capability:

```
SELECT count(*) FROM PageView SINCE 1 day ago FACET dateOf(account_created), monthOf(account_created)
```

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th width={210}>
        **Time-based functions**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Description**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `yearOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the year of a timestamp.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `quarterOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the quarter of the year. The returned value includes both the quarter and the year.

        Example: `Q1 2014`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `monthOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the month and year of the timestamp.

        Example: `July 2014`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `weekOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the week the timestamp occurred by naming the month and day of that week's Monday.

        Example: `Week of January 15`.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `weekdayOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the day of the week of the timestamp. The returned value loops back at the end of the week, allowing you to look at trends by weekday over time.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dateOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the date of the timestamp. The returned value includes month, day and year.

        Example: `July 15, 2014`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dayOfMonthOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the numeric date within a single month of the timestamp, a value from 1 to 31. The returned value does not include the month.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `hourOf(attr)`
      </td>

      <td>
        Returns the hour of the timestamp.

        The returned value does not include a prepended 0 for hours between 1am and 9am. This differs from functions and clauses such as `SINCE`, which accept these hours with a 0 at the start.

        Examples: `6:00`, `12:00`, `18:00`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="facet-time-example"
    title="Group results by month"
  >
    To group all results based on the month, use the `monthOf` function. In this example, the NRQL query includes a function (`count(*)`), a data type (`PageView`), a time frame (`SINCE 1 day ago`), and a time facet (`monthOf(attribute)`).

    ```
    SELECT count(*) FROM PageView SINCE 1 day ago FACET monthOf(account_created)
    ```

    Running the query returns a table of results by month.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="facet-other-examples"
    title="Other grouping examples with FACET clause"
  >
    You can run NRQL queries to group your data in other ways, not just time. For additional examples, see the [NRQL `FACET` documentation](/docs/insights/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-resources/nrql-syntax-components-functions#sel-facet).
  </Collapser>
  
  <Collapser
    id="timeseries-chart-examples"
    title="Example of creating a chart by specifying TIMESERIES"
  >
    You need to be aware of UNTIL you add the TIMESERIES function and use the time function in a time series chart.
The default value of UNTIL is NOW, so if you do not specify anything, the values of the time functions may be separated or combined.
By specifying `UNTIL today`, you can create a chart that ends at 12:00 AM on the same day.

    ```
    SELECT count(*) FROM PageView TIMESERIES 1 day  WITH TIMEZONE '<localTimeZone>' SINCE 4 week ago UNTIL today
    ```

If you want to visualize data from `last month` instead of the past four weeks, you can use `since last month until this month`.

    ```
    SELECT count(*) FROM PageView TIMESERIES 1 day  WITH TIMEZONE '<localTimeZone>' since last month until this month
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>
