---
title: "End of life for CPM and legacy synthetic monitoring runtimes"
summary: "On October 22, 2024, New Relic will end of life (EOL) the containerized private minion (CPM) capability and legacy synthetic monitoring runtimes, including our legacy Chrome 72 (or older) and Node version 10 (or older) runtimes."
publishDate: '2024-04-22'
eolEffectiveDate: '2024-10-22'
---

On October 22, 2024, New Relic will end of life (EOL):

* The Containerized Private Minion (CPM) capability
* Legacy synthetic monitoring runtimes, including our legacy Chrome 72 (or older) and Node version 10 (or older) runtimes 

## What you need to do

Update to the latest runtimes by [following procedures in our transition guide](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors/new-runtime/), or by contacting support.

The new runtimes improve on our legacy runtime environment, including but not limited to these changes:  

* Updating to the new runtime will remove certain CVE findings that cannot be resolved due to the legacy runtime design and backward compatibility requirements of the Containerized Private Minion (CPM)
* Support for newer Chrome and Node.js versions, including easier upgrade paths
* More frequent browser version updates
* Access device emulation and other new capabilities 

**All customers must be on the new runtime by October 22, 2024 in order to prevent degradation.**

Read on to learn more about how the update affects your public or private locations.

### For public locations

* New Relic will update all broken link and certificate check monitors to the new runtime.
* Customers should update their scripted API, scripted browser, and step monitors to the new runtime [using the runtime upgrade UI](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors/runtime-upgrade-ui) before October 22, 2024. 
   * If you do not update, we’ll force update your monitors to the new runtime on the end-of-life date. **This may result in check failures and triggered alerts.**
   * Before updating to the new runtime, use the test results from the runtime upgrade UI to determine which monitors need to be modified.
* As of **August 26, 2024**, customers will be unable to create new monitors using legacy runtimes on public locations.

### For private locations

* You should [update to our new job manager](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/private-locations/job-manager-transition-guide/), which provides support for our new runtime on private locations. **If you don't, your monitors will stop running at the end-of-life date.**
* Once you're using the new job manager, update your monitors to the new runtime using the runtime upgrade UI. This includes all non-ping monitor types. 
   * If you do not update, we'll force update your monitors to the new runtime. **This may result in check failures and triggered alerts.**
   * Remember to use the test results from the runtime upgrade UI to determine the monitors that may require modifications before updating to the new runtime.
* On April 5, 2024, we added support for advanced features of the Containerized Private Minion (CPM) to the Synthetics Job Manager:
   * Verified script execution (VSE)
   * Custom environment variables
   * Custom node modules
* Customers will be unable to create new monitors using legacy runtimes on private locations as of **August 26, 2024**.

## Links to additional resources

* [Runtime transition guide](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors/new-runtime/)
* [Runtime upgrade troubleshooting guide](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/troubleshooting/runtime-upgrade-troubleshooting/)
* [Runtime upgrade UI documentation](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors/runtime-upgrade-ui)
