src/content/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-nodejs.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Node.js: Configure logs in context'
tags:
  - Logs
  - Enable log management in New Relic
  - Logs in context for Node.js
metaDescription: For apps monitored by the Node.js agent, learn how to link log data with related data across the rest of the New Relic platform.
redirects:
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs-context/enable-logs-context-nodejs
  - /docs/logs/enable-logs/logs-context-node/configure-logs-context-node
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/logs-context-nodejs/configure-logs-context-nodejs
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs-context/enable-logs-context-winston
  - /docs/logs/enable-logs/logs-context-node/nodejs-configure-winston
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/logs-context-nodejs/nodejs-configure-winston
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/logs-context-nodejs/nodejs-configure-winston
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/logs-context-nodejs/configure-logs-context-nodejs
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/logs-context-nodejs
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-nodejs
---

Logs in context for the Node.js agent connects your logs and APM data in New Relic. Bringing all of this data together in a single tool helps you quickly get to the root cause of an issue and find the log lines that you need to identify and resolve a problem.

## Set up your Node.js app [#configure-node-js]

To enable logs in context for APM apps monitored by Node.js:

1. Make sure you have already [set up logging in New Relic](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-management-new-relic/). This includes configuring a supported log forwarder that collects your application logs and extends the metadata that is forwarded to New Relic.
2. [Install](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/update-nodejs-agent/) or [update](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/update-nodejs-agent/) to the latest Node.js agent version, and [enable distributed tracing](/docs/distributed-tracing/enable-configure/quick-start/). Use [Node.js agent version 6.2.0 or higher](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/nodejs-release-notes/) for logs in context.
3. Install the [Winston logging framework version 3.0.0 or higher](https://github.com/winstonjs/winston) to enrich your log data.
4. Configure logs in context for Node.js using the Winston extension.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="nodejs-winston"
    title="Node.js configuration with Winston"
  >

  1. To install the Winston log enricher, enter the following command into your terminal or command line interface:

    ```
    npm install @newrelic/winston-enricher
    ```
  2. In your application code, update your logging configuration to add the `newrelicFormatter`:

    ```
    // index.js
    require('newrelic')
    const newrelicFormatter = require('@newrelic/winston-enricher')
    ```

  The New Relic formatter can be used individually or combined with other formatters as the final format.
  
    ```
    format: winston.format.combine(
      winston.format.label({label: 'test'}),
      newrelicFormatter()
    )
    ```
  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

5. To verify that you have configured the log appender correctly, run your application, then check your [logs data in New Relic One](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/) using the query operator `has:span.id has:trace.id`.

If everything is configured correctly and your data is being forwarded to New Relic with the enriched metadata, your logs should now be emitted as JSON and contain `trace.id` and `span.id` fields. If you don't see log data in the UI, follow the [troubleshooting procedures](/docs/logs/log-management/troubleshooting/no-log-data-appears-ui/).

## What's next? [#what-next]

After you set up APM logs in context, make the most of your logging data:

* Explore the logging data across your platform with our [Logs UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/).
* See your logs in context of your app's performance in the [APM UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/#links). Troubleshoot [errors](/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/error-analytics/errors-page-find-fix-verify-problems/) with [distributed tracing](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-data), stack traces, application logs, and more.
* Get deeper visibility into both your application and your platform performance data by forwarding your logs with our [infrastructure monitoring agent](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent/). Review your [infrastructure logs](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/#links) in the UI.
* Set up [alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-alert-conditions/).
* [Query your data](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/) and [create dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/).

Commit message:

fix: updated logs in context docs to include a new log enricher for Node.js: Pino

src/content/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-nodejs.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Node.js: Configure logs in context'
tags:
  - Logs
  - Enable log management in New Relic
  - Logs in context for Node.js
  - Winston
  - Pino
metaDescription: For apps monitored by the Node.js agent, learn how to link log data with related data across the rest of the New Relic platform.
redirects:
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs-context/enable-logs-context-nodejs
  - /docs/logs/enable-logs/logs-context-node/configure-logs-context-node
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/logs-context-nodejs/configure-logs-context-nodejs
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs-context/enable-logs-context-winston
  - /docs/logs/enable-logs/logs-context-node/nodejs-configure-winston
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/logs-context-nodejs/nodejs-configure-winston
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/logs-context-nodejs/nodejs-configure-winston
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/logs-context-nodejs/configure-logs-context-nodejs
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/logs-context-nodejs
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-nodejs
---

Logs in context for the Node.js agent connects your logs and APM data in New Relic. Bringing all of this data together in a single tool helps you quickly get to the root cause of an issue and find the log lines that you need to identify and resolve a problem.

## Set up your Node.js app [#configure-node-js]

To enable logs in context for APM apps monitored by Node.js:

1. Make sure you have already [set up logging in New Relic](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-management-new-relic/). This includes configuring a supported log forwarder that collects your application logs and extends the metadata that is forwarded to New Relic.
2. [Install](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/update-nodejs-agent/) or [update](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/update-nodejs-agent/) to the latest Node.js agent version, and [enable distributed tracing](/docs/distributed-tracing/enable-configure/quick-start/). Use [Node.js agent version 6.2.0 or higher](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/nodejs-release-notes/) for logs in context.
3. Install [Winston 3.0.0 or higher](https://github.com/winstonjs/winston) or [Pino 7.0.0 or higher](https://github.com/pinojs/pino) to enrich your log data.
4. Configure logs in context for Node.js using the appropriate log extension.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="nodejs-winston"
    title="Node.js configuration with Winston"
  >

  1. To install the Winston log enricher, enter the following command into your terminal or command line interface:

    ```
    npm install @newrelic/winston-enricher
    ```
  2. In your application code, update your logging configuration to add the `newrelicFormatter`:

    ```
    // index.js
    require('newrelic')
    const newrelicFormatter = require('@newrelic/winston-enricher')
    ```

  The New Relic formatter can be used individually or combined with other formatters as the final format.

    ```
    format: winston.format.combine(
      winston.format.label({label: 'test'}),
      newrelicFormatter()
    )
    ```
  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>
<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="nodejs-pino"
    title="Node.js configuration with Pino"
  >

  1. To install the Pino log enricher, enter the following command into your terminal or command line interface:

    ```
    npm install @newrelic/pino-enricher
    ```
  2. In your application code, update your logging configuration to add the New Relic Pino plugin:

    ```
    // index.js
    require('newrelic')
    const nrPino = require('@newrelic/pino-enricher')
    const pino = require('pino')
    const logger = pino(nrPino())
    ```

  The New Relic formatter can be used individually or combined with other formatters as the final format.
  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

5. To verify that you have configured the log appender correctly, run your application, then check your [logs data in New Relic One](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/) using the query operator `has:span.id has:trace.id`.

If everything is configured correctly and your data is being forwarded to New Relic with the enriched metadata, your logs should now be emitted as JSON and contain `trace.id` and `span.id` fields. If you don't see log data in the UI, follow the [troubleshooting procedures](/docs/logs/log-management/troubleshooting/no-log-data-appears-ui/).

## What's next? [#what-next]

After you set up APM logs in context, make the most of your logging data:

* Explore the logging data across your platform with our [Logs UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/).
* See your logs in context of your app's performance in the [APM UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/#links). Troubleshoot [errors](/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/error-analytics/errors-page-find-fix-verify-problems/) with [distributed tracing](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-data), stack traces, application logs, and more.
* Get deeper visibility into both your application and your platform performance data by forwarding your logs with our [infrastructure monitoring agent](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent/). Review your [infrastructure logs](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/#links) in the UI.
* Set up [alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-alert-conditions/).
* [Query your data](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/) and [create dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/).
