src/content/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-ruby.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Ruby: Configure logs in context'
tags:
  - Logs
  - Enable log management in New Relic
  - Logs in context for Ruby
metaDescription: For apps monitored by the Ruby agent, learn how to link log data with related data across the rest of the New Relic platform.
redirects:
  - /docs/enable-logs-context-ruby
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs-context/enable-logs-context-ruby
  - /docs/logs/enable-logs/logs-context-ruby/configure-logs-context-ruby
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/logs-context-ruby/configure-logs-context-ruby
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/logs-context-ruby
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/logs-context-ruby/configure-logs-context-ruby
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-ruby
---

Logs in context for the Ruby agent connects your logs and APM data in New Relic. Bringing all of this data together in a single tool helps you quickly get to the root cause of an issue and find the log lines that you need to identify and resolve a problem.

## Set up your Ruby app [#configure-ruby]

To enable logs in context for APM apps monitored by Ruby:

1. Make sure you have already [set up logging in New Relic](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-management-new-relic/). This includes configuring a supported log forwarder that collects your application logs and extends the metadata that is forwarded to New Relic.
2. [Install](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/install-new-relic-ruby-agent/) or [update](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/update-ruby-agent/) to the latest Ruby agent version, and [enable distributed tracing](/docs/distributed-tracing/enable-configure/quick-start/). Use [Ruby agent version 6.7.0 or higher](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/ruby-release-notes/) for logs in context.
3. For Rails applications, use a [supported Rails version](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/ruby-agent-requirements-supported-frameworks/#web_frameworks).
4. Configure logs in context for Ruby.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="enable-rails"
    title="Standard Ruby on Rails configuration"
  >

  Rails logging is controlled by two components:
    * A logger you can customize by setting `config.logger`
    * A log formatter you can customize by setting `config.log_formatter`)
  
  In most cases, you should configure logs in context by setting `config.log_formatter` to the `DecoratingFormatter` in your Rails application. For more information about Rails configuration, see the [rubyonrails.org documentation](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/configuring.html).

  In your application's config, require `newrelic_rpm`, then add the following line:

  ```
  module ________
    class Application < Rails::Application

    ...

    config.log_formatter = ::NewRelic::Agent::Logging::DecoratingFormatter.new
    end
  end
  ```

  This configuration uses the New Relic formatter for log messages, but the remaining configuration is provided by the other Rails settings.

  </Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="incompabilities"
    title="Incompatible gems"
  >

  New Relic's decorating logger is known to be incompatible with the following gems:

  * [logging](https://rubygems.org/gems/logging)
  * [semantic logger](https://rubygems.org/gems/semantic_logger)
  * [rails_stdout_logger](https://rubygems.org/gems/rails_stdout_logging)
  * [rails_12factor](https://rubygems.org/gems/rails_12factor)

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="rails-adv-config"
    title="Rails advanced configuration"
  >

  If setting the `log_formatter` option doesn't meet your needs, replace the entire Rails logger with an instance of the New Relic logger. Provide the parameters to the logger's constructor, like this:

  ```
  module ________
    class Application < Rails::Application

      ...

      config.logger = ::NewRelic::Agent::Logging::DecoratingLogger.new(
      "log/application.log", #etc...
      )
    end
  end
  ```

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="enable-non-rails"
    title="Ruby configuration without Rails"
  >

  For non-Rails applications, use the `DecoratingLogger` in place of the Ruby standard `::Logger`, like this:

  ```
  logger = ::NewRelic::Agent::Logging::DecoratingLogger.new(
    'log/application.log', #etc...
  )
  ...
  
  logger.info(...)
  ```
  The `DecoratingLogger` is a drop-in replacement for the Ruby standard `::Logger`. Their constructors accept the same parameters.

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="lograge-adv-config"
    title="Lograge configuration"
  >
  To configure this extension with the [lograge gem](https://rubygems.org/gems/lograge), no additional configuration is required.

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="adv-ruby-config"
    title="Other logging extensions"
  >
  To use our logging extension with a different logging implementation or with your own custom logger, use the `DecoratingFormatter`. For example:

  ```
  module ________
    class Application < Rails::Application

      ...

      config.logger = ::YourCustomLoggerImplementation.new(
        $stdout,
        formatter: ::NewRelic::Agent::Logging::DecoratingFormatter.new
      )
    end
  end
  ```

  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

5. To verify that you have configured the log appender correctly, run your application, then check your [logs data in New Relic One](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/) using the query operator `has:span.id has:trace.id`.

If everything is configured correctly and your data is being forwarded to New Relic with the enriched metadata, your logs should now be emitted as JSON and contain `trace.id` and `span.id` fields.

If you have configured your logging in `/config/application.rb` or in `/config/environments/development.rb`, run your application locally and check its logging output. You should see some output like this:

```
{"entity.name":"your_app_name","entity.type":"SERVICE","hostname":"79bcbf8d","trace.id":"79bcbf8d","span.id":"00fc7d46","timestamp":1567701375543,"message":"example log message one","log.level":"DEBUG"}
{"entity.name":"your_app_name","entity.type":"SERVICE","hostname":"79bcbf8d","trace.id":"79bcbf8d","span.id":"6754870b","timestamp":1567702843604,"message":"example log message two","log.level":"DEBUG"}
```

## Troubleshooting

If you don't see log data in the UI, follow the [troubleshooting procedures](/docs/logs/log-management/troubleshooting/no-log-data-appears-ui/). Also, if you see JSON logs in your application's output, but your query does not return logs, check your [log forwarder](/docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs/enable-new-relic-logs).

If the logs from your application are not formatted in JSON with fields like `trace.id` and `span.id`, there may be a problem with your log forwarding extension. In this situation:

* Check that the application is using a [supported logging framework](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-management-new-relic/).
* Check that your [logging configuration](#adv-ruby-config) has been applied to all the environments where you want to forward and enrich the log data being sent to New Relic.
* Check that another logger is not configured later in your application's configuration.

Logs in context for Ruby does not support tagged logging. If you are initializing your logger with a `log_tags` argument, your custom tags may not appear on the final version of your logs.

## What's next? [#what-next]

After you set up APM logs in context, make the most of your logging data:

* Explore the logging data across your platform with our [Logs UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/).
* See your logs in context of your app's performance in the [APM UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/#links). Troubleshoot [errors](/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/error-analytics/errors-page-find-fix-verify-problems/) with [distributed tracing](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-data), stack traces, application logs, and more.
* Get deeper visibility into both your application and your platform performance data by forwarding your logs with our [infrastructure monitoring agent](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent/). Review your [infrastructure logs](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/#links) in the UI.
* Set up [alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-alert-conditions/).
* [Query your data](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/) and [create dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/).

Commit message:

fix(Logs): Clarify requirements
For LOGGING-6345 and also answering a question in slack about Ruby LiC

src/content/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-ruby.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Ruby: Configure logs in context'
tags:
  - Logs
  - Enable log management in New Relic
  - Logs in context for Ruby
metaDescription: For apps monitored by the Ruby agent, learn how to link log data with related data across the rest of the New Relic platform.
redirects:
  - /docs/enable-logs-context-ruby
  - /docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs-context/enable-logs-context-ruby
  - /docs/logs/enable-logs/logs-context-ruby/configure-logs-context-ruby
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/logs-context-ruby/configure-logs-context-ruby
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/logs-context-ruby
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/logs-context-ruby/configure-logs-context-ruby
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-ruby
---

Logs in context for the Ruby agent connects your logs and APM data in New Relic. Bringing all of this data together in a single tool helps you quickly get to the root cause of an issue and find the log lines that you need to identify and resolve a problem.

## Set up your Ruby app [#configure-ruby]

To enable logs in context for APM apps monitored by Ruby:

1. Make sure you have already [set up logging in New Relic](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-management-new-relic/). This includes configuring a supported log forwarder that collects your application logs and extends the metadata that is forwarded to New Relic.
2. [Install](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/install-new-relic-ruby-agent/) or [update](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/update-ruby-agent/) to the latest Ruby agent version, and [enable distributed tracing](/docs/distributed-tracing/enable-configure/quick-start/). Use [Ruby agent version 6.7.0 or higher](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/ruby-release-notes/) for logs in context.
3. For Rails applications, use a [supported Rails version](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/ruby-agent-requirements-supported-frameworks/#web_frameworks).
4. Configure logs in context for Ruby.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="enable-rails"
    title="Standard Ruby on Rails configuration"
  >

  Rails logging is controlled by two components:
    * A logger you can customize by setting `config.logger`
    * A log formatter you can customize by setting `config.log_formatter`)
  
  In most cases, you should configure logs in context by setting `config.log_formatter` to the `DecoratingFormatter` in your Rails application. For more information about Rails configuration, see the [rubyonrails.org documentation](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/configuring.html).

  In your application's config, require `newrelic_rpm`, then add the following line:

  ```
  module ________
    class Application < Rails::Application

    ...

    config.log_formatter = ::NewRelic::Agent::Logging::DecoratingFormatter.new
    end
  end
  ```

  This configuration uses the New Relic formatter for log messages, but the remaining configuration is provided by the other Rails settings.

  </Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="incompabilities"
    title="Incompatible gems"
  >

  New Relic's decorating logger is known to be incompatible with the following gems:

  * [logging](https://rubygems.org/gems/logging)
  * [semantic logger](https://rubygems.org/gems/semantic_logger)
  * [rails_stdout_logger](https://rubygems.org/gems/rails_stdout_logging)
  * [rails_12factor](https://rubygems.org/gems/rails_12factor)

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="rails-adv-config"
    title="Rails advanced configuration"
  >

  If setting the `log_formatter` option doesn't meet your needs, replace the entire Rails logger with an instance of the New Relic logger. Provide the parameters to the logger's constructor, like this:

  ```
  module ________
    class Application < Rails::Application

      ...

      config.logger = ::NewRelic::Agent::Logging::DecoratingLogger.new(
      "log/application.log", #etc...
      )
    end
  end
  ```

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="enable-non-rails"
    title="Ruby configuration without Rails"
  >

  For non-Rails applications, use the `DecoratingLogger` in place of the Ruby standard `::Logger`, like this:

  ```
  logger = ::NewRelic::Agent::Logging::DecoratingLogger.new(
    'log/application.log', #etc...
  )
  ...
  
  logger.info(...)
  ```
  The `DecoratingLogger` is a drop-in replacement for the Ruby standard `::Logger`. Their constructors accept the same parameters.

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="lograge-adv-config"
    title="Lograge configuration"
  >
  To configure this extension with the [lograge gem](https://rubygems.org/gems/lograge), follow standard procedures in this doc for [Ruby on Rails configuration](#enable-rails). No additional configuration is required for the lograge gem.

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="adv-ruby-config"
    title="Other logging extensions"
  >
  To use our logging extension with a different logging implementation or with your own custom logger, use the `DecoratingFormatter`. For example:

  ```
  module ________
    class Application < Rails::Application

      ...

      config.logger = ::YourCustomLoggerImplementation.new(
        $stdout,
        formatter: ::NewRelic::Agent::Logging::DecoratingFormatter.new
      )
    end
  end
  ```

  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

5. To verify that you have configured the log appender correctly, run your application, then check your [logs data in New Relic One](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/) using the query operator `has:span.id has:trace.id`.

If everything is configured correctly and your data is being forwarded to New Relic with the enriched metadata, your logs should now be emitted as JSON and contain `trace.id` and `span.id` fields.

If you have configured your logging in `/config/application.rb` or in `/config/environments/development.rb`, run your application locally and check its logging output. You should see some output like this:

```
{"entity.name":"your_app_name","entity.type":"SERVICE","hostname":"79bcbf8d","trace.id":"79bcbf8d","span.id":"00fc7d46","timestamp":1567701375543,"message":"example log message one","log.level":"DEBUG"}
{"entity.name":"your_app_name","entity.type":"SERVICE","hostname":"79bcbf8d","trace.id":"79bcbf8d","span.id":"6754870b","timestamp":1567702843604,"message":"example log message two","log.level":"DEBUG"}
```

## Troubleshooting

If you don't see log data in the UI, follow the [troubleshooting procedures](/docs/logs/log-management/troubleshooting/no-log-data-appears-ui/). Also, if you see JSON logs in your application's output, but your query does not return logs, check your [log forwarder](/docs/logs/new-relic-logs/enable-logs/enable-new-relic-logs).

If the logs from your application are not formatted in JSON with fields like `trace.id` and `span.id`, there may be a problem with your log forwarding extension. In this situation:

* Check that the application is using a [supported logging framework](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-management-new-relic/).
* Check that your [logging configuration](#adv-ruby-config) has been applied to all the environments where you want to forward and enrich the log data being sent to New Relic.
* Check that another logger is not configured later in your application's configuration.

Logs in context for Ruby does not support tagged logging. If you are initializing your logger with a `log_tags` argument, your custom tags may not appear on the final version of your logs.

## What's next? [#what-next]

After you set up APM logs in context, make the most of your logging data:

* Explore the logging data across your platform with our [Logs UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/).
* See your logs in context of your app's performance in the [APM UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/#links). Troubleshoot [errors](/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/error-analytics/errors-page-find-fix-verify-problems/) with [distributed tracing](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-data), stack traces, application logs, and more.
* Get deeper visibility into both your application and your platform performance data by forwarding your logs with our [infrastructure monitoring agent](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent/). Review your [infrastructure logs](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/#links) in the UI.
* Set up [alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-alert-conditions/).
* [Query your data](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/) and [create dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/).
