src/content/docs/using-new-relic/user-interface-functions/share-your-data/ticketing-integrations.mdx, before:

---
title: Ticketing integrations
tags:
  - APM
  - APM UI pages
  - Features
metaDescription: How to create Lighthouse tickets from APM transaction traces or error traces in New Relic.
redirects:
  - /docs/features/jira-integration
  - /docs/site/ticketing-integrations
  - /docs/general/how-do-i-monitor-my-app-in-atlassian-jira
  - /docs/features/ticketing-integrations
  - /docs/traces/ticketing-integrations
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/ui-functions/ticketing-integrations
  - /docs/accounts-partnerships/education/getting-started-new-relic/ticketing-integrations
  - /docs/data-analysis/user-interface-functions/ticketing-integrations
  - /docs/data-analysis/user-interface-functions/share-your-data/ticketing-integrations
  - /docs/data-analysis/user-interface-functions/share-your-data/ticketing-integrations-jira-lighthouse-pivotal-tracker
  - /docs/using-new-relic/user-interface-functions/share-your-data/ticketing-integrations-jira-lighthouse-pivotal-tracker
  - /docs/using-new-relic/user-interface-functions/share-your-data/ticketing-integrations-lighthouse-pivotal-tracker
---

You can integrate New Relic with [Lighthouse](http://lighthouseapp.com). This is useful to create tickets about performance issues in APM's [transaction traces](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/introduction-transaction-traces) and [error analytics](/docs/apm/applications-menu/error-analytics/error-analytics-explore-events-behind-errors).

## Requirements

New Relic sends information to the ticketing system with webhooks. Make sure your system accepts traffic from New Relic's [webhook IPs](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/getting-started/networks#webhooks).

In addition, Lighthouse setup requires:

* The subdomain for your installation; for example, `https://subdomain.lighthouseapp.com`
* Your Lighthouse account's email and password for ticket tracking

## Integrate with New Relic [#procedures]

To connect your New Relic account to Lighthouse:

1. How you find the integrations UI depends on your [user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models): 
  * Original user model: from [one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com), click the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#account-dropdown), and select **Ticketing integrations**. 
  * New Relic One user model: from [one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com), click the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#account-dropdown), click **Administration**, and click **Integrations**.
2. Select the tab for Lighthouse.

After your ticketing system has been integrated, the corresponding tab's health status indicator in New Relic's UI changes to green (enabled).

## File tickets [#ticket]

To use the ticketing system integrated with your New Relic account:

1. From the selected [APM transaction trace](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/transaction-trace-details) or [APM error trace](/docs/apm/applications-menu/error-analytics/error-analytics-manage-error-traces), select **File a ticket**.
2. Follow standard procedures to create a ticket from your Lighthouse account.

Commit message:

fix(Jira): Add link from ticketing integrations to errors inbox

src/content/docs/using-new-relic/user-interface-functions/share-your-data/ticketing-integrations.mdx, after:

---
title: Ticketing integrations
tags:
  - APM
  - APM UI pages
  - Features
metaDescription: How to create Lighthouse tickets from APM transaction traces or error traces in New Relic.
redirects:
  - /docs/features/jira-integration
  - /docs/site/ticketing-integrations
  - /docs/general/how-do-i-monitor-my-app-in-atlassian-jira
  - /docs/features/ticketing-integrations
  - /docs/traces/ticketing-integrations
  - /docs/apm/new-relic-apm/ui-functions/ticketing-integrations
  - /docs/accounts-partnerships/education/getting-started-new-relic/ticketing-integrations
  - /docs/data-analysis/user-interface-functions/ticketing-integrations
  - /docs/data-analysis/user-interface-functions/share-your-data/ticketing-integrations
  - /docs/data-analysis/user-interface-functions/share-your-data/ticketing-integrations-jira-lighthouse-pivotal-tracker
  - /docs/using-new-relic/user-interface-functions/share-your-data/ticketing-integrations-jira-lighthouse-pivotal-tracker
  - /docs/using-new-relic/user-interface-functions/share-your-data/ticketing-integrations-lighthouse-pivotal-tracker
---

You can integrate New Relic with Jira or [Lighthouse](http://lighthouseapp.com). This is useful to create tickets about performance issues in APM's [transaction traces](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/introduction-transaction-traces) and [error analytics](/docs/apm/applications-menu/error-analytics/error-analytics-explore-events-behind-errors).

## Jira [#jira]

For details about our Jira integration, see [errors inbox](/docs/errors-inbox/errors-inbox#jira).

## Lighthouse [#lighthouse-section]

Here are details about the Lighthouse integration.

### Requirements [#lighthouse-reqs]

New Relic sends information to the ticketing system with webhooks. Make sure your system accepts traffic from New Relic's [webhook IPs](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/getting-started/networks#webhooks).

In addition, Lighthouse setup requires:

* The subdomain for your installation; for example, `https://subdomain.lighthouseapp.com`
* Your Lighthouse account's email and password for ticket tracking

### Integrate with New Relic [#procedures]

To connect your New Relic account to Lighthouse:

1. How you find the integrations UI depends on your [user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models): 
  * Original user model: from [one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com), click the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#account-dropdown), and select **Ticketing integrations**. 
  * New Relic One user model: from [one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com), click the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#account-dropdown), click **Administration**, and click **Integrations**.
2. Select the tab for Lighthouse.

After your ticketing system has been integrated, the corresponding tab's health status indicator in New Relic's UI changes to green (enabled).

### File tickets [#ticket]

To use the ticketing system integrated with your New Relic account:

1. From the selected [APM transaction trace](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/transaction-trace-details) or [APM error trace](/docs/apm/applications-menu/error-analytics/error-analytics-manage-error-traces), select **File a ticket**.
2. Follow standard procedures to create a ticket from your Lighthouse account.
