src/content/docs/apm/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: Server-side agent configuration
tags:
  - Agents
  - Manage APM agents
  - Configuration
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: Use server-side configuration to manage some agent settings via the New Relic UI instead of the config file. Not available for PHP and C SDK.
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration
---

Server-side configuration transitions some core settings from your language agent's configuration file to the [New Relic collector](/docs/accounts-partnerships/education/getting-started-new-relic/glossary#collector). Depending on the language agent, available settings may include:

* Transaction tracing
* SQL recording and logging
* SQL query plans
* Error collection
* Thread profiling
* Distributed tracing
* Cross application tracing

## Centralization and security [#features]

Server-side configuration provides an easy way to manage the available settings from the New Relic UI. Centralized configuration settings can also help you ensure standards compliance and security management for your settings.

Any change automatically applies to all APM agents, even if they run across multiple hosts. The agent still follows the [local configurations](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/configure-agent) for any settings not available from the UI.

## Server-side configuration precedence [#precedence]

This feature provides the convenience of managing the available configuration settings directly within the New Relic UI, without the need for deployments or restarts. Available options to change settings, and the order of precedence they take when you utilize environment variables or other configuration options, will depend on the language agent used.

For more information about the hierarchy of settings, see the illustration for the specific agent:

* [C SDK configuration](/docs/agents/c-sdk/install-configure/c-sdk-configuration): A hierarchy is not applicable, because configuration values come from API calls. Also, server-side configuration is not supported. However, you can change the app name from the [UI](/docs/agents/c-sdk/install-configure/c-sdk-configuration#change-ui) or from the C SDK [configuration settings](/docs/agents/c-sdk/install-configure/c-sdk-configuration#change-app-name).
* [Go hierarchy](/docs/agents/go-agent/instrumentation/go-agent-configuration#options)
* [Java hierarchy](/docs/agents/java-agent/configuration/java-agent-configuration-config-file#config-options-precedence)
* [.NET hierarchy](/docs/agents/net-agent/installation-configuration/net-agent-configuration#config-options-precedence)
* [Node.js hierarchy](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/configuring-nodejs#hierarchy)
* [PHP hierarchy](/docs/agents/php-agent/configuration/php-agent-configuration#config-options-precedence) (server-side configuration not supported)
* [Python hierarchy](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation-configuration/python-agent-configuration#options)
* [Ruby hierarchy](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation-configuration/ruby-agent-configuration#Options)

## Enable server-side configuration [#enable-ssc]

The C SDK and PHP agent do not support server-side configuration. To enable server-side configuration settings for apps that use other New Relic agents:

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)** and click **APM**.
2. Click on your app. Then click **Settings > Application > Server-side agent configuration**.

After you enable server-side configuration, you can view and change the available settings through the UI.

## View or change server-side configuration settings [#customize-ssc]

If you use server-side configuration, you must still include your `license_key` and `app_name` in the local config file. These settings are required for the agent to communicate with the New Relic collector.

The C SDK and PHP agent do not support server-side configuration. To view or change the available server-side configuration settings through the UI for apps that use other New Relic agents:

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)** and click **APM**.
2. Click on your app. Then click **Settings > Application > Server-side agent configuration**.

Once you set any of these options from the UI, they will override any conflicting options in the [agent's configuration file](#precedence).

## Disable server-side configuration [#disable-ssc]

Once you enable server-side configuration for an account, server-side configuration cannot be turned off without assistance from [New Relic Support](http://support.newrelic.com). This helps mitigate issues that could arise from conflicts with configuration settings if you need to transition back to a local configuration setup.

Commit message:

add(nerdgraph): new apm server side config docs

src/content/docs/apm/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: Server-side agent configuration
tags:
  - Agents
  - Manage APM agents
  - Configuration
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: New Relic APM server-side config lets you manage some agent settings from the New Relic side, instead of the agent config file.
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration
---

Server-side configuration transitions some core settings from your language agent's configuration file to the [New Relic collector](/docs/accounts-partnerships/education/getting-started-new-relic/glossary#collector). Depending on the language agent, available settings may include:

* Transaction tracing
* SQL recording and logging
* SQL query plans
* Error collection
* Thread profiling
* Distributed tracing
* Cross application tracing

## Requirements [#requirements]

Server-side configuration is not available for our C SDK agent or our PHP agent.  

## Centralization and security [#features]

Server-side configuration provides an easy way to manage the available settings from the New Relic server side. Centralized configuration settings can also help you ensure standards compliance and security management for your settings.

Any change to a monitored application automatically applies to all APM agents monitoring that application, even if they run across multiple hosts. The agent still follows the [local configurations](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/configure-agent) for any settings that can't be set .

## Server-side configuration precedence [#precedence]

This feature provides the convenience of managing the available configuration settings directly from the New Relic side, without the need for deployments or restarts. Available options to change settings, and the order of precedence they take when you use environment variables or other configuration options, will depend on the language agent used.

For more information about the hierarchy of settings, see the illustration for the specific agent:

* [C SDK configuration](/docs/agents/c-sdk/install-configure/c-sdk-configuration): A hierarchy is not applicable, because configuration values come from API calls. Also, server-side configuration is not supported. However, you can change the app name from the [UI](/docs/agents/c-sdk/install-configure/c-sdk-configuration#change-ui) or from the C SDK [configuration settings](/docs/agents/c-sdk/install-configure/c-sdk-configuration#change-app-name).
* [Go hierarchy](/docs/agents/go-agent/instrumentation/go-agent-configuration#options)
* [Java hierarchy](/docs/agents/java-agent/configuration/java-agent-configuration-config-file#config-options-precedence)
* [.NET hierarchy](/docs/agents/net-agent/installation-configuration/net-agent-configuration#config-options-precedence)
* [Node.js hierarchy](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/configuring-nodejs#hierarchy)
* [PHP hierarchy](/docs/agents/php-agent/configuration/php-agent-configuration#config-options-precedence) (server-side configuration not supported)
* [Python hierarchy](/docs/agents/python-agent/installation-configuration/python-agent-configuration#options)
* [Ruby hierarchy](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation-configuration/ruby-agent-configuration#Options)

## Configure from the UI [#enable-ssc]

The C SDK and PHP agent do not support server-side configuration. To enable server-side configuration settings for monitored apps from the UI:

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)** and click **APM**.
2. Click on your app. Then click **Settings > Application > Server-side agent configuration**.

After you enable server-side configuration, you can view and change the available settings through the UI.

## Configure from NerdGraph API [#enable-nerdgraph]

For how to enable this with NerdGraph, see the [NerdGraph tutorial](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/apm-config-nerdgraph).

## View or change server-side configuration settings [#customize-ssc]

If you use server-side configuration, you must still include your `license_key` and `app_name` in the local config file. These settings are required for the agent to communicate with the New Relic collector.

The C SDK and PHP agent do not support server-side configuration. To view or change the available server-side configuration settings through the UI for apps that use other New Relic agents:

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)** and click **APM**.
2. Click on your app. Then click **Settings > Application > Server-side agent configuration**.

Once you set any of these options from the UI, they will override any conflicting options in the [agent's configuration file](#precedence).

## Disable server-side configuration [#disable-ssc]

Once you enable server-side configuration for an account, server-side configuration cannot be turned off without assistance from [New Relic Support](http://support.newrelic.com). This helps mitigate issues that could arise from conflicts with configuration settings if you need to transition back to a local configuration setup.
