src/content/docs/codestream/start-here/codestream-user-guide.mdx, before:

---
title: CodeStream user guide
metaDescription: "Everything you need to get started with CodeStream."
---

## Quick Start

Use the navigation to the left to jump straight to any topic. Otherwise, read on
to get started with CodeStream.

### 1. Install the CodeStream extension in your IDE and sign up.

Install CodeStream for [VS
Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=CodeStream.codestream),
[Visual
Studio](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=CodeStream.codestream-vs) or
[JetBrains](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/12206-codestream). The CodeStream pane should
automatically appear in the sidebar for VS Code, or in a tool window at the
right side for a JetBrains IDE or Visual Studio. Click on "Sign Up and Create a
team" if you are the first person from your team to join CodeStream, or paste in
your invitation code if you were invited to a team already on CodeStream.

![Sign up for CodeStream](/images/QS-SignUp3.png)

[Learn more about how to use CodeStream.](/docs/codestream/start-here/install-codestream)

### 2. Connect your tools

Create and review pull requests on GitHub, GitLab or Bitbucket. Create issues on
Jira, Trello, and other issue trackers. Share code discussions on Slack or
Microsoft Teams. CodeStream brings the tools you use every day together in your
IDE. Click on your headshot at the top of the CodeStream pane and go to the
Integrations page to get all of your tools connected.

![Integrations](/images/QS-Integrations.png)

### 3. Discuss any block of code, at any time

Whether you're trying to understand someone else's code or getting help with
some code you just wrote, just select the code and ask your question.

![Discuss Code](/images/QS-DiscussCode1.png)

[Learn more about discussing code.](/docs/codestream/how-use-codestream/discuss-code)

### 4. Get feedback on your work in progress

Select "Request Feedback" from the "+" menu at any time in the development
cycle, whether it’s a quick look over some work in progress (even uncommitted
code!) or a formal review of a completed effort.

![Feedback Request](/images/QS-FeedbackRequest.png)

Teammates can review your changes right in their IDE, with no need to switch
branches or set aside their own work. [Learn more about feedback
requests.](/docs/codestream/how-use-codestream/feedback-requests-section)

### 5. Create or review a pull request

Look for the Pull Requests section of the CodeStream sidebar to review an open
pull request. Just click on a pull request (or load one from URL) to get a
complete GitHub experience right in your IDE!

![Pull Request](/images/QS-PullRequest.png)

Note that you can create a pull request in GitHub, GitLab or Bitbucket, but
support for reviewing pull requests is currently only available for GitHub
(cloud or Enterprise). [Learn more about pull requests.](/docs/codestream/how-use-codestream/pull-requests-section)

## Help & Feedback

* Report a bug or send a suggestion in [GitHub issues](https://github.com/TeamCodeStream/CodeStream/issues).
* Contact us directly at [support@codestream.com](mailto:support@codestream.com).
* Follow [@teamcodestream](http://twitter.com/teamcodestream) for product updates and to share feedback and questions.

Commit message:

style(CodeStream): Copyedit pass on the Start here docs

src/content/docs/codestream/start-here/codestream-user-guide.mdx, after:

---
title: New Relic CodeStream user guide
metaDescription: "Everything you need to get started with CodeStream."
---

## Jump to a topic [#jump]

Use the navigation on the left to jump straight to any topic. Otherwise, read on
to get started with New Relic CodeStream.

## 1. Install the CodeStream extension in your IDE and sign up. [#install]

Install CodeStream for [VS
Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=CodeStream.codestream),
[Visual
Studio](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=CodeStream.codestream-vs) or
[JetBrains](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/12206-codestream). The CodeStream pane
automatically appears in the sidebar for VS Code or in a tool window at the
right side for JetBrains or Visual Studio. Click **Sign Up and Create a
team** if you're the first person from your team to join CodeStream or paste in
your invitation code if you were invited to a team already on CodeStream.

![Sign up for CodeStream](/images/QS-SignUp3.png)

[Learn more about how to use CodeStream.](/docs/codestream/start-here/install-codestream)

## 2. Connect your tools [#connect]

Create and review pull requests on GitHub, GitLab or Bitbucket. Create issues on
Jira, Trello, and other issue trackers. Share code discussions on Slack or
Microsoft Teams. CodeStream brings the tools you use every day together in your
IDE. Click on your headshot at the top of the CodeStream pane and go to the
Integrations page to get all of your tools connected.

![Integrations](/images/QS-Integrations.png)

## 3. Discuss any block of code, at any time [#discuss]

Whether you're trying to understand someone else's code or getting help with
some code you just wrote, just select the code and ask your question.

![Discuss Code](/images/QS-DiscussCode1.png)

[Learn more about discussing code.](/docs/codestream/how-use-codestream/discuss-code)

## 4. Get feedback on your work in progress [#feedback]

Select "Request Feedback" from the "+" menu at any time in the development
cycle, whether it’s a quick look over some work in progress (even uncommitted
code!) or a formal review of a completed effort.

![Feedback Request](/images/QS-FeedbackRequest.png)

Teammates can review your changes right in their IDE, with no need to switch
branches or set aside their own work. [Learn more about feedback
requests.](/docs/codestream/how-use-codestream/feedback-requests-section)

## 5. Create or review a pull request [#pr]

Look for the Pull Requests section of the CodeStream sidebar to review an open
pull request. Just click on a pull request (or load one from URL) to get a
complete GitHub experience right in your IDE!

![Pull Request](/images/QS-PullRequest.png)

Note that you can create a pull request in GitHub, GitLab or Bitbucket, but
support for reviewing pull requests is currently only available for GitHub
(cloud or Enterprise). [Learn more about pull requests.](/docs/codestream/how-use-codestream/pull-requests-section)

## Help and feedback [#help]

* Report a bug or suggest an improvement in [GitHub issues](https://github.com/TeamCodeStream/CodeStream/issues).
* Contact us directly at [support@codestream.com](mailto:support@codestream.com).
* Follow [@teamcodestream](http://twitter.com/teamcodestream) for product updates and to share feedback and questions.
