src/content/docs/codestream/start-here/sign-up-codestream.mdx, before:

---
title: Sign up for CodeStream
description: "An overview of CodeStream's accounts and organizations and how to set those up for your team."
---

To get the most out of CodeStream's collaboration tools, create an organization and then invite your team members to it. 

## Create an account [#account]

If you already have the CodeStream extension [installed in your IDE](/docs/codestream/start-here/install-codestream), you can start the sign up process from the CodeStream pane.

![Create an account](./images/CreateAnAccount6.png)

There are two ways to sign up for CodeStream. You can sign up with a set of CodeStream credentials (such as, email address and password). Alternatively, you can sign up using your GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket (cloud versions only) account. 

Signing up via your code host also connects your repositories to CodeStream. If the email address you're using with your code host isn't your work email, you should create CodeStream-specific credentials instead.

If you sign up via CodeStream, your next step will be to confirm your email address by entering a code sent to you via email. You can paste the code into any of the boxes rather than typing each number individually.

![Confirm Email](./images/EmailConfirmation1.png)

## CodeStream organizations [#organizations]

A CodeStream organization is where you and your teammates will discuss code. Similar to a Slack workspace, all of the developers in your company are in the same CodeStream organization. CodeStream's activity feed keeps things relevant for you by showing activity related to the code you have open in your IDE. 

The discussions about code build up a knowledge base that is a company-wide resource, so the only reason to have multiple organizations on CodeStream is if you truly need separation. For example, you might have an organization for your day job and another for an open-source project you work on. Or maybe you're a consultant that's a member of different CodeStream organizations for each of your clients.

## Create or join an organization [#create-org]

If you're invited to join an organization on CodeStream, sign up with the same email address the invitation was sent to. You'll automatically be added to that organization.

If you're the first person from your company to sign up for CodeStream you can go ahead and create a new organization. Otherwise, there may be existing CodeStream organizations available for you to join based on your email domain. If you think your company is already on CodeStream, but don't see an organization to join, make sure that you've signed up with your work email.

![Create or join an organization](./images/CreateOrJoinOrg.png)

If you decide to create an organization you'll be asked to give it a name and, if you signed up with your work email address, anyone else with that email domain can join the organization.

![Create an organization](./images/CreateOrg.png)

## Invite your team [#invite]

Collaboration is a team sport so invite your teammates to join you on CodeStream.

![Invite teammates](./images/InviteTeammates.png)

CodeStream will offer up some suggestions based on the commit history of the repositories you have open in your IDE.

Now you're ready to start using CodeStream.

Commit message:

feat(AI/Alerts/CodeStream): Added sign-up calls to action on several pages that were missing them

src/content/docs/codestream/start-here/sign-up-codestream.mdx, after:

---
title: Sign up for CodeStream
description: "An overview of CodeStream's accounts and organizations and how to set those up for your team."
---

To get the most out of New Relic CodeStream's collaboration tools, create an organization and then invite your team members to it. 

If you haven't already, [sign up for a free New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup) so that you can get the most out of New Relic CodeStream.

## Create an account [#account]

If you already have the CodeStream extension [installed in your IDE](/docs/codestream/start-here/install-codestream), you can start the sign up process from the CodeStream pane.

![Create an account](./images/CreateAnAccount6.png)

There are two ways to sign up for CodeStream. You can sign up with a set of CodeStream credentials (such as, email address and password). Alternatively, you can sign up using your GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket (cloud versions only) account. 

Signing up via your code host also connects your repositories to CodeStream. If the email address you're using with your code host isn't your work email, you should create CodeStream-specific credentials instead.

If you sign up via CodeStream, your next step will be to confirm your email address by entering a code sent to you via email. You can paste the code into any of the boxes rather than typing each number individually.

![Confirm Email](./images/EmailConfirmation1.png)

## CodeStream organizations [#organizations]

A CodeStream organization is where you and your teammates will discuss code. Similar to a Slack workspace, all of the developers in your company are in the same CodeStream organization. CodeStream's activity feed keeps things relevant for you by showing activity related to the code you have open in your IDE. 

The discussions about code build up a knowledge base that is a company-wide resource, so the only reason to have multiple organizations on CodeStream is if you truly need separation. For example, you might have an organization for your day job and another for an open-source project you work on. Or maybe you're a consultant that's a member of different CodeStream organizations for each of your clients.

## Create or join an organization [#create-org]

If you're invited to join an organization on CodeStream, sign up with the same email address the invitation was sent to. You'll automatically be added to that organization.

If you're the first person from your company to sign up for CodeStream you can go ahead and create a new organization. Otherwise, there may be existing CodeStream organizations available for you to join based on your email domain. If you think your company is already on CodeStream, but don't see an organization to join, make sure that you've signed up with your work email.

![Create or join an organization](./images/CreateOrJoinOrg.png)

If you decide to create an organization you'll be asked to give it a name and, if you signed up with your work email address, anyone else with that email domain can join the organization.

![Create an organization](./images/CreateOrg.png)

## Invite your team [#invite]

Collaboration is a team sport so invite your teammates to join you on CodeStream.

![Invite teammates](./images/InviteTeammates.png)

CodeStream will offer up some suggestions based on the commit history of the repositories you have open in your IDE.

Now you're ready to start using CodeStream.
