src/content/docs/codestream/start-here/what-is-codestream.mdx, before:

---
title: What is New Relic CodeStream?
description: "New Relic CodeStream is the code collaboration tool built for remote teams."
---

New Relic CodeStream is a developer collaboration platform that makes it incredibly easy for development teams, especially remote teams, to discuss and review code in a more natural and contextual way. CodeStream not only makes discussions easier, by allowing them to happen in your IDE, in context, but also preserves the institutional knowledge that is currently being lost in Slack channels and emails.

<Callout title="Preview release">
CodeStream's integration with New Relic One is a preview release limited to New Relic One accounts on our US data center, and your use is subject to the pre-release policy. (This does not apply to all other CodeStream functionality.)
</Callout>

## Discuss code just like commenting on a Google Doc [#discuss]

Simply select a block of code and type your question or comment. Teammates can participate in the discussion right from their IDE and you can optionally share the discussion on Slack or Microsoft Teams so teammates can participate from their chat clients as well. 

![CodeStream](./images/DiscussCode1-VSC.gif)

CodeStream turns conversation into documentation by capturing all of the discussion about your code and saving it with your code. And the real magic is that the discussions are automatically repositioned as your code changes, even across branches. All with zero effort on your part.

## Get feedback on work-in-progress with pre-PR code review [#feedback]

CodeStream's lightweight feedback requests let you have someone look over your changes regardless of the current state of your repo, without the friction of committing, pushing, or issuing a pull request.

![Feedback Request](./images/FRRequest-VSC.gif)

Your teammates can review your changes right in their IDE, with full file context, and with no need to set aside their current work to switch branches or pull the latest. 

![Review Changes](./images/FRPerform-VSC.gif)

CodeStream’s feedback requests are so easy that you can start doing them throughout the development process instead of waiting until the end. You’re a few days into a sprint and have some work stubbed out? Maybe some work that hasn’t even been committed? Request feedback on your work in progress so that you can identify and resolve issues early instead of saving those gotchas for when you need to get the code merged.

## Create and review pull requests [#prs]

For most development teams, the final step in the development process is a pull request. Even if your team has decided to use CodeStream's [feedback requests](/docs/codestream/how-use-codestream/request-feedback) as a replacement for, and not just a precursor to, your end-of-cycle PR-based code reviews, you can create and review pull requests right inside your IDE.

![Review a Pull Request](./images/PullRequest-VSC.gif)

## Monitor your code’s performance in production [#performance-monitoring]

Your pursuit of software quality doesn’t end once the code has been merged. Connect CodeStream to your New Relic One account and you can either jump from an error on New Relic One into your IDE or you can discover errors in CodeStream's Observability section. Navigate the stack trace to find the offending code and collaborate with your teammates to resolve the issue.

![Monitor Performance](./images/Observability-VSC.gif)

Commit message:

feat(AI/Alerts/CodeStream): Added sign-up calls to action on several pages that were missing them

src/content/docs/codestream/start-here/what-is-codestream.mdx, after:

---
title: What is New Relic CodeStream?
description: "New Relic CodeStream is the code collaboration tool built for remote teams."
---

New Relic CodeStream is a developer collaboration platform that makes it incredibly easy for development teams, especially remote teams, to discuss and review code in a more natural and contextual way. CodeStream not only makes discussions easier, by allowing them to happen in your IDE, in context, but also preserves the institutional knowledge that is currently being lost in Slack channels and emails.

If you haven't already, [sign up for a free New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup) so that you can get the most out of New Relic CodeStream.

<Callout title="Preview release">
CodeStream's integration with New Relic One is a preview release limited to New Relic One accounts on our US data center, and your use is subject to the pre-release policy. (This does not apply to all other CodeStream functionality.)
</Callout>

## Discuss code just like commenting on a Google Doc [#discuss]

Simply select a block of code and type your question or comment. Teammates can participate in the discussion right from their IDE and you can optionally share the discussion on Slack or Microsoft Teams so teammates can participate from their chat clients as well. 

![CodeStream](./images/DiscussCode1-VSC.gif)

CodeStream turns conversation into documentation by capturing all of the discussion about your code and saving it with your code. And the real magic is that the discussions are automatically repositioned as your code changes, even across branches. All with zero effort on your part.

## Get feedback on work-in-progress with pre-PR code review [#feedback]

CodeStream's lightweight feedback requests let you have someone look over your changes regardless of the current state of your repo, without the friction of committing, pushing, or issuing a pull request.

![Feedback Request](./images/FRRequest-VSC.gif)

Your teammates can review your changes right in their IDE, with full file context, and with no need to set aside their current work to switch branches or pull the latest. 

![Review Changes](./images/FRPerform-VSC.gif)

CodeStream’s feedback requests are so easy that you can start doing them throughout the development process instead of waiting until the end. You’re a few days into a sprint and have some work stubbed out? Maybe some work that hasn’t even been committed? Request feedback on your work in progress so that you can identify and resolve issues early instead of saving those gotchas for when you need to get the code merged.

## Create and review pull requests [#prs]

For most development teams, the final step in the development process is a pull request. Even if your team has decided to use CodeStream's [feedback requests](/docs/codestream/how-use-codestream/request-feedback) as a replacement for, and not just a precursor to, your end-of-cycle PR-based code reviews, you can create and review pull requests right inside your IDE.

![Review a Pull Request](./images/PullRequest-VSC.gif)

## Monitor your code’s performance in production [#performance-monitoring]

Your pursuit of software quality doesn’t end once the code has been merged. Connect CodeStream to your New Relic One account and you can either jump from an error on New Relic One into your IDE or you can discover errors in CodeStream's Observability section. Navigate the stack trace to find the offending code and collaborate with your teammates to resolve the issue.

![Monitor Performance](./images/Observability-VSC.gif)
