src/content/docs/infrastructure/other-infrastructure-integrations/databricks-integration.mdx, before:

---
title: Databricks integration
tags:
  - Databricks
  - databricks integration
  - New Relic integration
metaDescription: Use the Databricks integration to collect telemetry from the Databricks Data Intelligence Platform 
freshnessValidatedDate: 2026-01-26
---

The Databricks Integration is a standalone application that collects telemetry from the Databricks Data Intelligence Platform, to be used in troubleshooting and optimizing Databricks workloads.

The integration collects the following types of telemetry:

-   Apache Spark application metrics, such as Spark executor memory and cpu
    metrics, durations of Spark jobs, durations and I/O metrics of Spark stages
    and tasks, and Spark RDD memory and disk metrics
-   Databricks Lakeflow job run metrics, such as durations, start and end times,
    and termination codes and types for job and task runs.
-   Databricks Lakeflow Declarative Pipeline update metrics, such as durations,
    start and end times, and completion status for updates and flows.
-   Databricks Lakeflow Declarative Pipeline event logs
-   Databricks query metrics, including execution times and query I/O metrics.
-   Databricks cluster health metrics and logs, such as driver and worker memory
    and cpu metrics and driver and executor logs.
-   Databricks consumption and cost data that can be used to show DBU consumption
    and estimated Databricks costs.

## Install the integration [#setup]

The Databricks Integration is intended be deployed on the driver node of a Databricks all-purpose, job, or pipeline [cluster](https://docs.databricks.com/en/getting-started/concepts.html#cluster). To deploy the integration in this manner, follow the steps to [deploy the integration to a Databricks cluster](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-databricks-integration/docs/installation.md#deploy-the-integration-to-a-databricks-cluster).

The Databricks Integration can also be deployed remotely on a supported host environment. To deploy the integration in this manner, follow the steps to [deploy the integration remotely](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-databricks-integration/docs/installation.md#deploy-the-integration-remotely).

## Verify the installation [#verify-installation]

Once the Databricks Integration has run for a few minutes, use the [query builder](https://one.newrelic.com/data-exploration/query-builder) in New Relic to run the following query, replacing `[YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME]` with the _name_ of the Databricks cluster _where the integration was installed_ (note that if your cluster name includes a `'`, you must escape it with a `\`):

`SELECT uniqueCount(executorId) AS Executors FROM SparkExecutorSample WHERE databricksClusterName = '[YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME]'`

The result of the query should be **a number greater than zero**.

## Import the example dashboards (optional) [#add-dashboard]

To help you get started using the collected telemetry, install our pre-built dashboards using the [guided installation](https://one.newrelic.com/marketplace?state=34e67b15-4fe1-28ef-ff41-99658fb36820).

Alternately, you can install the pre-built dashboards by following the instructions found in [Import the Example Dashboards](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-databricks-integration/docs/example-dashboards.md).

## Learn more

To learn more about the Databricks Integration, visit the official New Relic Databricks Integration [repository](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-databricks-integration).

Commit message:

fix: Update first-sentence in databricks-integration.mdx
Update the first sentence in the databricks-integration.mdx to make it very clear that the integration is an open-source community project and no a product supported project.

src/content/docs/infrastructure/other-infrastructure-integrations/databricks-integration.mdx, after:

---
title: Databricks integration
tags:
  - Databricks
  - databricks integration
  - New Relic integration
metaDescription: Use the Databricks integration to collect telemetry from the Databricks Data Intelligence Platform 
freshnessValidatedDate: 2026-01-26
---

The Databricks Integration is an open-source community project that provides a comprehensive suite of telemetry collection capabilities across your Databricks estate. These capabilities ensure you have the full, in-context data you need for deep analysis and optimization.

The integration collects the following types of telemetry:

-   Apache Spark application metrics, such as Spark executor memory and cpu
    metrics, durations of Spark jobs, durations and I/O metrics of Spark stages
    and tasks, and Spark RDD memory and disk metrics
-   Databricks Lakeflow job run metrics, such as durations, start and end times,
    and termination codes and types for job and task runs.
-   Databricks Lakeflow Declarative Pipeline update metrics, such as durations,
    start and end times, and completion status for updates and flows.
-   Databricks Lakeflow Declarative Pipeline event logs
-   Databricks query metrics, including execution times and query I/O metrics.
-   Databricks cluster health metrics and logs, such as driver and worker memory
    and cpu metrics and driver and executor logs.
-   Databricks consumption and cost data that can be used to show DBU consumption
    and estimated Databricks costs.

## Install the integration [#setup]

The Databricks Integration is intended be deployed on the driver node of a Databricks all-purpose, job, or pipeline [cluster](https://docs.databricks.com/en/getting-started/concepts.html#cluster). To deploy the integration in this manner, follow the steps to [deploy the integration to a Databricks cluster](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-databricks-integration/docs/installation.md#deploy-the-integration-to-a-databricks-cluster).

The Databricks Integration can also be deployed remotely on a supported host environment. To deploy the integration in this manner, follow the steps to [deploy the integration remotely](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-databricks-integration/docs/installation.md#deploy-the-integration-remotely).

## Verify the installation [#verify-installation]

Once the Databricks Integration has run for a few minutes, use the [query builder](https://one.newrelic.com/data-exploration/query-builder) in New Relic to run the following query, replacing `[YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME]` with the _name_ of the Databricks cluster _where the integration was installed_ (note that if your cluster name includes a `'`, you must escape it with a `\`):

`SELECT uniqueCount(executorId) AS Executors FROM SparkExecutorSample WHERE databricksClusterName = '[YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME]'`

The result of the query should be **a number greater than zero**.

## Import the example dashboards (optional) [#add-dashboard]

To help you get started using the collected telemetry, install our pre-built dashboards using the [guided installation](https://one.newrelic.com/marketplace?state=34e67b15-4fe1-28ef-ff41-99658fb36820).

Alternately, you can install the pre-built dashboards by following the instructions found in [Import the Example Dashboards](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-databricks-integration/docs/example-dashboards.md).

## Learn more

To learn more about the Databricks Integration, visit the official New Relic Databricks Integration [repository](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-databricks-integration).
