src/content/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/install-nodejs-agent.mdx, before:

---
title: Install the Node.js agent
tags:
  - Agents
  - Nodejs agent
  - Installation and configuration
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: Procedures and resources to install New Relic's Node.js agent.
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/install-nodejs-agent
  - /docs/nodejs/installing-and-maintaining-nodejs
  - /docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-and-configuration/installing-and-maintaining-nodejs
  - /docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/installing-maintaining-nodejs
  - /docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/install-maintain-nodejs
---

To complete a basic Node.js agent installation, you can use our guided installation for an automated install, (choose EU if you're in the EU) or follow the instructions in this document. Either way, you need a New Relic account if you don't already have one. ([It's free, forever!](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/#how-pricing-works))

<ButtonGroup>
  <ButtonLink
  data-tessen="stitchedPathLinkClick"
  role="button"
  to="https://newrelic.com/signup"
  variant="primary"
>
  Get an account

</ButtonLink>

<ButtonLink
  role="button"
  to="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJ0dWNzb24ucGxnLWluc3RydW1lbnQtZXZlcnl0aGluZyJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJzZXR1cC1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1ub2RlLWludGVncmF0aW9uIiwiYWNjb3VudElkIjoyNjQwNDA5fQ==&platform[accountId]=1"
  variant="primary"
>
  Start agent install
</ButtonLink>

<ButtonLink
  role="button"
  to="https://one.eu.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.explorer?platform[accountId]=1&platform[$isFallbackTimeRange]=true&platform[timeRange][duration]=1800000&pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJ0dWNzb24ucGxnLWluc3RydW1lbnQtZXZlcnl0aGluZyJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJzZXR1cC1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1ub2RlLWludGVncmF0aW9uIiwiYWNjb3VudElkIjoyNjQwNDA5fQ==&state=c0a267b5-d1c4-842a-0818-13da8103c4d7"
  variant="primary"
>
  EU guided install
</ButtonLink>
</ButtonGroup>

Our Node.js agent is publicly available on the [Node Package Manager (npm) repository](https://npmjs.org/package/newrelic) as well as on [GitHub](https://github.com/newrelic/node-newrelic). 

## Install the Node.js agent [#installing]

<Callout variant="important">
  If you're using the agent in a Docker container, [install the agent in each container](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/install-new-relic-nodejs-agent-docker).
</Callout>

To install the Node.js agent:

1. Create a New Relic account. Don't have one? [Sign up for free!](https://newrelic.com/signup) No credit card required.
2. Ensure you meet the [system requirements](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/getting-started/compatibility-requirements-nodejs-agent). In particular, make sure you use a supported Node version.
3. Use the command `npm install newrelic --save` for each application you want to monitor.
4. From `node_modules/newrelic`, copy `newrelic.js` into the root directory of your app.
5. Configure agent via the `newrelic.js` file or via [environment variable](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration#environment):

   * Customize the `license_key` setting with [your license key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key).
   * Customize the [`app_name`](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration#app_name) setting with one or more [meaningful app names](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/installation-and-configuration/naming-your-application).
6. Add `require('newrelic');` as the first line of your app's main module.
7. Optional: For additional [Node.js runtime-level statistics](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/supported-features/node-vms-statistics-page), ensure the [`@newrelic/native-metrics` package is installed](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/supported-features/node-vm-measurements).
8. Generate some traffic, then wait a few minutes for data to appear in the [APM UI](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page).

You can further [customize your agent behavior](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration) via `newrelic.js` or an environment variable. To keep the agent configuration separate from your app, edit the [`NEW_RELIC_HOME` environmental variable](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration#home).

## Keep your Node.js agent up-to-date [#upgrading]

To ensure that you have the most up-to-date version of New Relic, refer to the [Node.js release notes](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/nodejs-release-notes). When applicable, the release notes include a download link with instructions on how to [update the Node.js agent](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/upgrade-nodejs-agent).

## Troubleshooting [#troubleshoot]

After you update the agent, generate some traffic and wait a few minutes. If no data appears in the New Relic UI, see the [troubleshooting procedures](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-your-nodejs-installation).

Commit message:

feat(APM logs in context): NodeJS
Added logs in context info to selected docs for Node.js

src/content/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/install-nodejs-agent.mdx, after:

---
title: Install the Node.js agent
tags:
  - Agents
  - Nodejs agent
  - Installation and configuration
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: Procedures and resources to install New Relic's Node.js agent.
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/install-nodejs-agent
  - /docs/nodejs/installing-and-maintaining-nodejs
  - /docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-and-configuration/installing-and-maintaining-nodejs
  - /docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/installing-maintaining-nodejs
  - /docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/install-maintain-nodejs
---

To complete a basic Node.js agent installation, you can use our guided installation for an automated install, (choose EU if you're in the EU) or follow the instructions in this document. Either way, you need a New Relic account if you don't already have one. ([It's free, forever!](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/#how-pricing-works))

<ButtonGroup>
  <ButtonLink
  data-tessen="stitchedPathLinkClick"
  role="button"
  to="https://newrelic.com/signup"
  variant="primary"
>
  Get an account

</ButtonLink>

<ButtonLink
  role="button"
  to="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJ0dWNzb24ucGxnLWluc3RydW1lbnQtZXZlcnl0aGluZyJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJzZXR1cC1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1ub2RlLWludGVncmF0aW9uIiwiYWNjb3VudElkIjoyNjQwNDA5fQ==&platform[accountId]=1"
  variant="primary"
>
  Start agent install
</ButtonLink>

<ButtonLink
  role="button"
  to="https://one.eu.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.explorer?platform[accountId]=1&platform[$isFallbackTimeRange]=true&platform[timeRange][duration]=1800000&pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJ0dWNzb24ucGxnLWluc3RydW1lbnQtZXZlcnl0aGluZyJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJzZXR1cC1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1ub2RlLWludGVncmF0aW9uIiwiYWNjb3VudElkIjoyNjQwNDA5fQ==&state=c0a267b5-d1c4-842a-0818-13da8103c4d7"
  variant="primary"
>
  EU guided install
</ButtonLink>
</ButtonGroup>

Our Node.js agent is publicly available on the [Node Package Manager (npm) repository](https://npmjs.org/package/newrelic) as well as on [GitHub](https://github.com/newrelic/node-newrelic). 

## Install the Node.js agent [#installing]

<Callout variant="important">
  If you're using the agent in a Docker container, [install the agent in each container](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/install-new-relic-nodejs-agent-docker).
</Callout>

To install the Node.js agent:

1. Create a New Relic account. Don't have one? [Sign up for free!](https://newrelic.com/signup) No credit card required.
2. Ensure you meet the [system requirements](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/getting-started/compatibility-requirements-nodejs-agent). In particular, make sure you use a supported Node version.
3. Use the command `npm install newrelic --save` for each application you want to monitor.
4. From `node_modules/newrelic`, copy `newrelic.js` into the root directory of your app.
5. Configure agent via the `newrelic.js` file or via [environment variable](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration#environment):

   * Customize the `license_key` setting with [your license key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key).
   * Customize the [`app_name`](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration#app_name) setting with one or more [meaningful app names](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/installation-and-configuration/naming-your-application).
6. Add `require('newrelic');` as the first line of your app's main module.
7. Optional: For additional [Node.js runtime-level statistics](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/supported-features/node-vms-statistics-page), ensure the [`@newrelic/native-metrics` package is installed](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/supported-features/node-vm-measurements).
8. Generate some traffic, then wait a few minutes for data to appear in the [APM UI](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page).

You can further [customize your agent behavior](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration) via `newrelic.js` or an environment variable. To keep the agent configuration separate from your app, edit the [`NEW_RELIC_HOME` environmental variable](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration#home).

## View logs for your APM and infrastructure data [#logs-context]

You can also bring your logs and application's data together to make troubleshooting easier and faster. With [logs in context](/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-nodejs/), you can see log messages related to your errors and traces directly in your app's UI. You can also see logs in context of your [infrastructure data](/docs/logs/forward-logs/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent/), such as Kubernetes clusters. No need to switch to another UI page in New Relic One.

## Keep your Node.js agent up-to-date [#upgrading]

To ensure that you have the most up-to-date version of New Relic, refer to the [Node.js release notes](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/nodejs-release-notes). When applicable, the release notes include a download link with instructions on how to [update the Node.js agent](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/upgrade-nodejs-agent).

## Troubleshooting [#troubleshoot]

After you update the agent, generate some traffic and wait a few minutes. If no data appears in the New Relic UI, see the [troubleshooting procedures](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-your-nodejs-installation).
