src/content/docs/streaming-video-&-ads/installation/browser/compatibility-requirements/media-agent-for-browser.mdx, before:

---
title: Compatibility and requirements
tags:
translate:
metaDescription: 'Compatibility and requirements for the Media Agent for Browser.'
redirects:
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

Following are the compatibility and requirements for the Media Agent for Browser:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{width: "200px"}}>
        Browser Agent
      </th>

      <th>
        Versions
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
       Dash
      </td>
      <td>
        4.7.4
      </td>
     </tr>

     <tr>
      <td>
        Videojs
      </td>
      <td>
        7.17.0
      </td>
     </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Html5
      </td>
      <td>
        HTML5
      </td>
     </tr>

     <tr>
      <td>
        Bitmovin
      </td>
      <td>
        8.1.0
      </td>
     </tr>

     <tr>
      <td>
        Shaka
      </td>
      <td>
        4.11.2
      </td>
     </tr>

     <tr>
      <td>
        Jw Player
      </td>
      <td>
        8.0.0
      </td>
     </tr>

     <tr>
      <td>
        Akamai
      </td>
      <td>
        2.68.16
      </td>
     </tr>

     <tr>
      <td>
        The Player
      </td>
      <td>
        3.0.0
      </td>
     </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

Restructure the Media Streaming document

src/content/docs/streaming-video-&-ads/installation/browser/compatibility-requirements/media-agent-for-browser.mdx, after:

---
title: Browser agent compatibility and requirements
tags:
translate:
metaDescription: 'Compatibility requirements and supported video player versions for the New Relic Streaming Video & Ads monitoring agent for browser applications.'
redirects:
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

Following are the compatibility and requirements for the Media Agent for Browser:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{width: "200px"}}>
        Browser Agent
      </th>

      <th>
        Versions
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
       Dash
      </td>
      <td>
        4.7.4
      </td>
     </tr>

     <tr>
      <td>
        Videojs
      </td>
      <td>
        7.17.0
      </td>
     </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Html5
      </td>
      <td>
        HTML5
      </td>
     </tr>

     <tr>
      <td>
        Bitmovin
      </td>
      <td>
        8.1.0
      </td>
     </tr>

     <tr>
      <td>
        Shaka
      </td>
      <td>
        4.11.2
      </td>
     </tr>

     <tr>
      <td>
        Jw Player
      </td>
      <td>
        8.0.0
      </td>
     </tr>

     <tr>
      <td>
        Akamai
      </td>
      <td>
        2.68.16
      </td>
     </tr>

     <tr>
      <td>
        The Player
      </td>
      <td>
        3.0.0
      </td>
     </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
