---
title: "End of life for Google Core Web Vital FID metric"
summary: "On September 9, 2024, Google is deprecating the FID metric, in favor of Interaction to Next Paint (“INP”)."
publishDate: '2024-08-01'
eolEffectiveDate: '2024-09-09'
---

On September 9, 2024, [Google is deprecating the FID metric](https://developers.google.com/search/blog/2023/05/introducing-inp), in favor of Interaction to Next Paint (“INP”). Since New Relic uses certain libraries and APIs that leverage the FID metric, you will need to take the actions below before September 9, 2024 to avoid inaccurate or unexpected behavior with custom dashboards, alerts, and service level reporting. 

## What you need to do

To avoid inaccurate alerts, charts, and service levels, you must make the following changes **before September 9, 2024**:

1. Edit all **custom dashboards** using FID from the `PageViewTiming` event and replace with INP. 
2. Edit any NRQL **alert conditions** using FID from the `PageViewTiming` event and replace with INP. 
3. Edit any **Service Levels** using FID from the PageViewTiming event and replace with INP.

See the resources below for more information on how to identify which dashboards, alerts, and service levels use the FID metric. 

Additionally, if you're using copy/paste browser instrumentation or are pinned to a version prior to [version 1227](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/release-notes/new-relic-browser-release-notes/browser-agent-release-notes/browser-agent-v1227/), you must update the browser agent to version 1227 or higher to ensure that you have access to using the INP metric. To check which browser agent version you're on and for instructions on how to update your agent, please [see our documentation](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/installation/update-browser-agent/). If you're using version 1227 or higher, you do not need to update your browser agent for this EOL; however, we recommend that customers keep all agents up to date.

## Additional resources

Customers can use the following queries (either NRQL or via NerdGraph) to identify custom dashboards, alerts, and service levels that use the FID metric. 

### Custom dashboards 

Use the [`NrdbQuery` event](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/query-based-pricing#custom-query) query to find whether FID is being used in a custom dashboard.
  
`SELECT uniques(source.dashboardId) FROM NrdbQuery WHERE  query like '%firstInputDelay%' SINCE THIS WEEK`

### Alerts 

Use the following [alerts-specific NerdGraph query](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph/) in your account to find whether FID is being used in a NRQL alert condition. 

```
{
  actor {
    account(id: {account-id}) {
      alerts {
        nrqlConditionsSearch(searchCriteria: {queryLike: "firstInputDelay"}) {
          nextCursor
          nrqlConditions {
            id
            name
            nrql {
              query
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Service Levels 

Use the following [browser monitoring and Service Levels-specific NerdGraph](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph/) queries in your account to determine which SLIs are affected:

1. Get the GUID of all the browser monitoring apps that have SLIs:

```
{
  actor {
    entitySearch(
      query: "domain = 'BROWSER' AND type = 'APPLICATION' AND `tags.nr.has_slis` = 'true'"
    ) {
      results {
        entities {
          guid
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

2. For each of these browser monitoring apps, get the list of SLIs and check if in the `WHERE` clause of the query there is a reference to `firstInputDelay`:

```
{
  actor {
    entity(guid: "<browser_guid>") {
      serviceLevel {
        indicators {
          events {
            validEvents {
              where
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
