src/content/docs/infrastructure/manage-your-data/data-instrumentation/apm-data-infrastructure-monitoring.mdx, before:

---
title: APM data in infrastructure monitoring
tags:
  - Infrastructure
  - Manage your data
  - Data and instrumentation
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: How to view APM data related to your associated infrastructure data in New Relic.
redirects:
  - /docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/data-instrumentation/infra-apm-overview
  - /docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/data-instrumentation/new-relic-apm-data-infrastructure
  - /node/14346
  - /docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/new-relic-apm-data-infrastructure
  - /docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/monitoring/apm-data-infrastructure
---

The integration of [APM](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/getting-started/welcome-new-relic-apm) and [infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/getting-started/welcome-new-relic-infrastructure) data lets you see your APM data and infrastructure data side by side so you can find the root cause of problems more quickly. Let's look at how the APM-Infrastructure integration works and how to make use of the shared data.

The main ways to find and use APM data in infrastructure monitoring are:

* [View APM charts on Infrastructure monitoring UI pages](#apm-chart)
* [Filter hosts by application data](#filter-by-app)
* [Switch between Infrastructure and APM](#switch)
* [Examine APM data in Inventory and Events pages](#inventory-events)

Infrastructure data appears in APM in the host table on the APM [Summary](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page) page.

## How to integrate APM and infrastructure data [#how-it-works]

For APM and infrastructure data to be integrated, all of the following must be true:

* The APM agent and the infrastructure agent must be installed on the same host.
* Both agents must use the same [New Relic license key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key).
* They must use the [same hostname](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/troubleshooting/apm-data-missing-infrastructure#hostnames).

If the integration is not working, see [Troubleshooting the APM-Infrastructure integration](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/troubleshooting/apm-data-missing-infrastructure).

## View APM charts [#apm-chart]

When your APM and infrastructure data is linked, you have access to APM data charts on these Infrastructure monitoring UI pages: **Hosts**, **Network**, **Storage**, and **Processes**.

To switch to different charts: select the dropdown beside a chart's name and choose a new chart. Application-related charts will be near the top.

![Infrastructure APM application data chart](./images/Infrastructure-APM-application-data-chart.png "infra-apm-chart.png")

<figcaption>
  **[one.newrelic.com](http://one.newrelic.com) > Infrastructure > Hosts**: If your APM and Infrastructure data is linked, the charts in Infrastructure monitoring can be changed to show your application data.
</figcaption>

## Filter by application data [#filter-by-app]

When your APM and infrastructure data is linked, you can filter displayed host data using **Applications:**

* From the [host filter](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/filter-group/filter-sets-organize-your-infrastructure-hosts), select **Applications**.
* Select the application you want to filter on.

  <Callout variant="tip">
    On the **Hosts** page, you can also filter by selecting items in the **Applications** column.
  </Callout>

## Switch between infrastructure and APM [#switch]

When your APM and infrastructure accounts are linked, you can switch over from infrastructure to APM and vice versa for the same selected time range.

You can switch from infrastructure to APM from these locations:

* From the [host filter](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/filter-group/filter-sets-organize-your-infrastructure-hosts) **Applications** menu
* On the **Hosts** page, when selecting applications in the **Applications** table column.

You can switch from APM to infrastructure from the host table on the APM [Summary](#infra-apm-overview) page.

## APM data in Inventory and Events [#inventory-events]

When your APM and infrastructure data is linked, you can view and filter on application data on the Infrastructure monitoring UI's [**Inventory** page](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/infrastructure-ui-pages/infrastructure-inventory-page-search-your-entire-infrastructure) and the [**Events** page](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/infrastructure-ui-pages/infrastructure-events-page-live-feed-every-agent).

## View host data in APM [#infra-apm-overview]

When your APM and infrastructure data is linked, you have more available host data in APM.

The APM [Summary](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page) page contains a table with data about your app's hosts and instances, including:

* Apdex
* Response time
* Throughput
* Error rate
* CPU usage
* Memory

You can toggle between a table view or breakout metric details for the individual hosts by selecting **View table** or **Break out each metric by host**.

For more information on host data on the APM **Summary** page, see [host details](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page#host_details).

## Troubleshoot missing APM data [#troubleshooting]

APM/Infrastructure integration should happen automatically if you have both the APM agent and the infrastructure agent installed on the same host(s) and they use the same [New Relic license key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key) and have the same hostname set. If you do not see APM data in infrastructure monitoring, see [Troubleshooting](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-apm-data-not-infrastructure).

Commit message:

feat(Logs in context xrefs): More xrefs in APM docs
The APM docs didn't explain that logs in context is available, so I'm adding more details to selected docs per DOC-7477

src/content/docs/infrastructure/manage-your-data/data-instrumentation/apm-data-infrastructure-monitoring.mdx, after:

---
title: APM data in infrastructure monitoring
tags:
  - Infrastructure
  - Manage your data
  - Data and instrumentation
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: How to view APM data related to your associated infrastructure data in New Relic.
redirects:
  - /docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/data-instrumentation/infra-apm-overview
  - /docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/data-instrumentation/new-relic-apm-data-infrastructure
  - /node/14346
  - /docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/new-relic-apm-data-infrastructure
  - /docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/monitoring/apm-data-infrastructure
---

The integration of [APM](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/getting-started/welcome-new-relic-apm) and [infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/getting-started/welcome-new-relic-infrastructure) data lets you see your APM data and infrastructure data side by side so you can find the root cause of problems more quickly.

The main ways to find and use APM data in infrastructure monitoring are:

* [View APM charts on Infrastructure monitoring UI pages](#apm-chart)
* [Filter hosts by application data](#filter-by-app)
* [Switch between Infrastructure and APM](#switch)
* [Examine APM data in Inventory and Events pages](#inventory-events)

Infrastructure data appears in APM in the host table on the APM [Summary](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page) page.

## View logs for your APM and infrastructure data [#logs-context]

You can also bring your logs and application's data together to make troubleshooting easier and faster. With [logs in context](/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents/), you can see log messages related to your errors and traces directly in your app's UI. You can also see logs in context of your [infrastructure data](/docs/logs/forward-logs/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent/), such as Kubernetes clusters. No need to switch to another UI page in New Relic One.

## How to integrate APM and infrastructure data [#how-it-works]

For APM and infrastructure data to be integrated, all of the following must be true:

* The APM agent and the infrastructure agent must be installed on the same host.
* Both agents must use the same [New Relic license key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key).
* They must use the [same hostname](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/troubleshooting/apm-data-missing-infrastructure#hostnames).

If the integration is not working, see [Troubleshooting the APM-Infrastructure integration](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/troubleshooting/apm-data-missing-infrastructure).

## View APM charts [#apm-chart]

When your APM and infrastructure data is linked, you have access to APM data charts on these Infrastructure monitoring UI pages: **Hosts**, **Network**, **Storage**, and **Processes**.

To switch to different charts: select the dropdown beside a chart's name and choose a new chart. Application-related charts will be near the top.

![Infrastructure APM application data chart](./images/Infrastructure-APM-application-data-chart.png "infra-apm-chart.png")

<figcaption>
  **[one.newrelic.com](http://one.newrelic.com) > Infrastructure > Hosts**: If your APM and Infrastructure data is linked, the charts in Infrastructure monitoring can be changed to show your application data.
</figcaption>

## Filter by application data [#filter-by-app]

When your APM and infrastructure data is linked, you can filter displayed host data using **Applications:**

* From the [host filter](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/filter-group/filter-sets-organize-your-infrastructure-hosts), select **Applications**.
* Select the application you want to filter on.

  <Callout variant="tip">
    On the **Hosts** page, you can also filter by selecting items in the **Applications** column.
  </Callout>

## Switch between infrastructure and APM [#switch]

When your APM and infrastructure accounts are linked, you can switch over from infrastructure to APM and vice versa for the same selected time range.

You can switch from infrastructure to APM from these locations:

* From the [host filter](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/filter-group/filter-sets-organize-your-infrastructure-hosts) **Applications** menu
* On the **Hosts** page, when selecting applications in the **Applications** table column.

You can switch from APM to infrastructure from the host table on the APM [Summary](#infra-apm-overview) page.

## APM data in Inventory and Events [#inventory-events]

When your APM and infrastructure data is linked, you can view and filter on application data on the Infrastructure monitoring UI's [**Inventory** page](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/infrastructure-ui-pages/infrastructure-inventory-page-search-your-entire-infrastructure) and the [**Events** page](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/infrastructure-ui-pages/infrastructure-events-page-live-feed-every-agent).

## View host data in APM [#infra-apm-overview]

When your APM and infrastructure data is linked, you have more available host data in APM.

The APM [Summary](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page) page contains a table with data about your app's hosts and instances, including:

* Apdex
* Response time
* Throughput
* Error rate
* CPU usage
* Memory

You can toggle between a table view or breakout metric details for the individual hosts by selecting **View table** or **Break out each metric by host**.

For more information on host data on the APM **Summary** page, see [host details](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page#host_details).

## Troubleshoot missing APM data [#troubleshooting]

APM/Infrastructure integration should happen automatically if you have both the APM agent and the infrastructure agent installed on the same host(s) and they use the same [New Relic license key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key) and have the same hostname set. If you do not see APM data in infrastructure monitoring, see [Troubleshooting](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-apm-data-not-infrastructure).
