src/content/docs/style-guide/writing-strategies/introduction-style-guide.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction to the style guide
contentType: page
template: basicDoc
topics:
  - New Relic only
  - Basic style guide
  - Writing guidelines
redirects:
  - /docs/nronly/writing-a-document
  - /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/writing-guidelines/writing-document
  - /docs/style-guide/basic-style-guide/writing-document
  - /docs/style-guide/writing-guidelines/writing-document
  - /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/writing-guidelines/structuring-document
  - >-
    /docs/style-guide/basic-style-guide/structuring-document
  - >-
    /docs/style-guide/writing-guidelines/structuring-document
  - /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/writing-guidelines/document-formatting
  - >-
    /docs/style-guide/writing-guidelines/formatting-document-key-points
  - >-
    /docs/style-guide/basic-style-guide/formatting-document-key-points
  - /docs/style-guide/writing-guidelines/intro-style-guide
  - /docs/style-guide/get-started/introduction-style-guide
  - /docs/style-guide
---

Welcome to New Relic's style guide. We've written these guidelines for content creators across New Relic, and for contributors to our open source content projects, like the Docs!

This guide also gives you some insight into how we think about good technical writing. We focus on style and usage that's particular to New Relic. We follow American English conventions. For topics that aren't covered, please refer to the [Microsoft Writing Style Guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/) (for guidelines on technical terminology) or the [Chicago Manual of Style](https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/home.html) (for general writing and editing guidelines).

Find the information you need:

* For our writing strategy, see docs in this section on [voice](/docs/style-guide/writing-strategies/voice-strategies-docs-sound-new-relic/), [five questions for great content](/docs/style-guide/writing-strategies/five-questions-help-write-docs/), [how to organize your content](/docs/style-guide/writing-strategies/oranize-doc), and more.
* For a quick reference for terms usage, see our [Usage dictionary](/docs/style-guide/word-choice/usage-dictionary).
* For how to write and edit pages on docs.newrelic.com, see [Create and edit content](/docs/style-guide/writing-docs/processes-procedures/create-edit-content).

Commit message:

feat(style guide): Combine redundant code format docs (#5635)
* feat(style guide): Combine redundant code format docs

* feat(style guide): Add syntax highlight examples, text from 5622

* style(style guide): Peer edit tweaks to code-examples doc

* chore(style guide): Delete teeny-tiny doc on "formatting overview"

src/content/docs/style-guide/writing-strategies/introduction-style-guide.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction to the style guide
contentType: page
template: basicDoc
topics:
  - New Relic only
  - Basic style guide
  - Writing guidelines
redirects:
  - /docs/nronly/writing-a-document
  - /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/writing-guidelines/writing-document
  - /docs/style-guide/basic-style-guide/writing-document
  - /docs/style-guide/writing-guidelines/writing-document
  - /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/writing-guidelines/structuring-document
  - >-
    /docs/style-guide/basic-style-guide/structuring-document
  - >-
    /docs/style-guide/writing-guidelines/structuring-document
  - /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/writing-guidelines/document-formatting
  - >-
    /docs/style-guide/writing-guidelines/formatting-document-key-points
  - >-
    /docs/style-guide/basic-style-guide/formatting-document-key-points
  - /docs/style-guide/writing-guidelines/intro-style-guide
  - /docs/style-guide/get-started/introduction-style-guide
  - /docs/style-guide
---

Welcome to New Relic's style guide. We've written these guidelines for content creators across New Relic, and for contributors to our open source content projects, like the Docs!

This guide also gives you some insight into how we think about good technical writing. We focus on style and usage that's particular to New Relic. We follow American English conventions. For topics that aren't covered, please refer to the [Microsoft Writing Style Guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/) (in particular, the "A–Z word list" and guide to [Formatting common text elements](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/text-formatting/formatting-common-text-elements)) or the [Chicago Manual of Style](https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/home.html) (for general writing and editing guidelines).

Find the information you need:

* For our writing strategy, see docs in this section on [voice](/docs/style-guide/writing-strategies/voice-strategies-docs-sound-new-relic/), [five questions for great content](/docs/style-guide/writing-strategies/five-questions-help-write-docs/), [how to organize your content](/docs/style-guide/writing-strategies/oranize-doc), and more.
* For a quick reference for terms usage, see our [Usage dictionary](/docs/style-guide/word-choice/usage-dictionary).
* For how to write and edit pages on docs.newrelic.com, see [Create and edit content](/docs/style-guide/writing-docs/processes-procedures/create-edit-content).
