src/content/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/new-relic-android-and-dt.mdx, before:

---
title: New Relic Android mobile monitoring with distributed tracing
metaDescription: This page describes how to set up Android distributed tracing.
redirects:
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/new-relic-mobile-and-dt
---
New Relic Android mobile monitoring agents support distributed tracing. This lets you see how your mobile app activity connects to related services.

Watch this short video (approx. 2:15 minutes) to learn how to:

* Find mobile distributed tracing data in New Relic.
* Filter by standard and custom attributes.

<Video id="tkAxeE5cT2Q" type="youtube" />

## Requirements [#requirements]

To use distributed tracing, you need at least Android agent version 6.0.0. We recommend you use the most recent agent.

<Callout variant="tip">
Infinite Tracing is not yet available for mobile monitoring.
</Callout>

## How to set up distributed tracing [#setup]

For mobile agents that support this feature, it’s enabled by default. 

If you prefer to turn off distributed tracing, see [Android feature flag](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/api-guides/android-agent-configuration-feature-flags/#dt).

## Find data [#find-data]

Mobile spans appear in any [New Relic distributed tracing UI](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/ui-data/additional-distributed-tracing-features-new-relic-one/) where those spans are part of a trace. 

Here are some tips for finding and querying data:

* You can find end-user-originating traces in any [New Relic One distributed tracing UI](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/ui-data/additional-distributed-tracing-features-new-relic-one).
* In the distributed tracing UI, end-user spans are indicated with the ![New Relic distributed tracing browser span icon](./images/mobile-icon.png "distributed-tracing-browser-span-icon.png") icon.
* To see a span's attributes, select [a span in the UI](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-data#span-details).
* Spans are reported as [Span data](/attribute-dictionary/?event=Span), and can be [queried in New Relic](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data).
* Query tips:
  * Query by browser app name by setting `mobileApp.name` to the browser app name.
  * Query for traces containing at least one mobile app span with `mobileApp.name is not null`.
  * Query for traces containing at least one back-end app with `appName is not null`.
  * Query for traces containing both mobile and back-end spans by combining the two previous conditions.

## Troubleshooting [#troubleshooting]

If you don't see end-user spans, or are having other distributed tracing issues, see [Troubleshooting](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-missing-trace-data).

Commit message:

fix(Mobile Monitoring): Update from develop branch to get current changes

src/content/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/new-relic-android-and-dt.mdx, after:

---
title: New Relic Android mobile monitoring with distributed tracing
metaDescription: This page describes how to set up Android distributed tracing.
redirects:
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/new-relic-mobile-and-dt
---
New Relic Android mobile monitoring agents support distributed tracing. This lets you see how your mobile app activity connects to related services.

Watch this short video (approx. 2:15 minutes) to learn how to:

* Find mobile distributed tracing data in New Relic.
* Filter by standard and custom attributes.

<Video id="tkAxeE5cT2Q" type="youtube" />

## Requirements [#requirements]

To use distributed tracing, you need at least Android agent version 6.0.0. We recommend you use the most recent agent.

## How to set up distributed tracing [#setup]

For mobile agents that support this feature, it’s enabled by default. 

If you prefer to turn off distributed tracing, see [Android feature flag](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/api-guides/android-agent-configuration-feature-flags/#dt).

## Infinite Tracing [#infinite-tracing]

If your mobile apps have some downstream services that use the advanced type of distributed tracing called Infinite Tracing, you should enable Infinite Tracing for your mobile apps. This ensures that your root span (the initiating mobile app) is included in the rest of the spans tracked by Infinite Tracing.

Infinite Tracing uses a trace observer in the cloud to collect all your trace spans. The trace observer uses [tail-based sampling](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/distributed-tracing/concepts/how-new-relic-distributed-tracing-works/#tail-based) to sort through your traces. This means it waits until all your spans arrive before assembling them into traces. Then, it looks through all your traces to find the important ones. 

To set up Infinite Tracing, go to our [Infinite Tracing](/docs/distributed-tracing/infinite-tracing/set-trace-observer) documentation for steps to create a trace observer and to select which mobile apps (data sources) should send trace spans to the Infinite Tracing trace observer.

## Find data [#find-data]

Mobile spans appear in any [New Relic distributed tracing UI](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/ui-data/additional-distributed-tracing-features-new-relic-one/) where those spans are part of a trace. 

Here are some tips for finding and querying data:

* You can find end-user-originating traces in any [New Relic One distributed tracing UI](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/ui-data/additional-distributed-tracing-features-new-relic-one).
* In the distributed tracing UI, end-user spans are indicated with the ![New Relic distributed tracing browser span icon](./images/mobile-icon.png "distributed-tracing-browser-span-icon.png") icon.
* To see a span's attributes, select [a span in the UI](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-data#span-details).
* Spans are reported as [Span data](/attribute-dictionary/?event=Span), and can be [queried in New Relic](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data).
* Query tips:
  * Query by browser app name by setting `mobileApp.name` to the browser app name.
  * Query for traces containing at least one mobile app span with `mobileApp.name is not null`.
  * Query for traces containing at least one back-end app with `appName is not null`.
  * Query for traces containing both mobile and back-end spans by combining the two previous conditions.

## Troubleshooting [#troubleshooting]

If you don't see end-user spans, or are having other distributed tracing issues, see [Troubleshooting](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-missing-trace-data).
