src/content/docs/style-guide/processes-procedures/embed-videos.mdx, before:

---
title: Embed videos
tags:
  - Tech writer style guide
  - Processes and procedures
redirects:
  - /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/processes-and-procedures/embedding-videos
  - /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/processes-procedures/embedding-videos
  - /docs/new-relic-only/advanced-style-guide/processes-procedures/embedding-videos
  - /docs/new-relic-only/tech-writer-style-guide/processes-procedures/embedding-videos
---

Embedding videos helps readers who prefer to learn by watching rather than reading. It also adds some visual pizzazz to the docs, and can be an easier way to explain complex processes. Our team usually doesn't create videos, but we work with teams that do to show off their content across the site. 

New Relic maintains video in a few places:

* [learn.newrelic.com](https://learn.newrelic.com/) (embeddable via Wistia)
* [youtube.com/c/NewRelicInc](https://www.youtube.com/c/NewRelicInc) (embeddable in YouTube)
* [newrelic.com/resources/webinars](https://newrelic.com/resources/webinars) (live videos, not embeddable)
* [twitch.tv/new_relic](https://www.twitch.tv/new_relic) (live and video on demand, not currently embeddable)

Videos are hosted externally and are embedded in the docs site's page, linking to the external source.

## Embed a video

To embed a video, add this code:

```
<Video
  type="wistia"
  id="<var>WISTIA_ID</var>"
/>
```

To embed a YouTube video, add this code:

```
<Video id="<var>YOUTUBE_ID</var>" type="youtube" />
```

## A video example [#videos]

<Video
  type="wistia"
  id="kpriqz9wy7"
/>

Commit message:

added a couple of edits
What is the "ID" in youtube videos.

src/content/docs/style-guide/processes-procedures/embed-videos.mdx, after:

---
title: Embed videos
tags:
  - Tech writer style guide
  - Processes and procedures
redirects:
  - /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/processes-and-procedures/embedding-videos
  - /docs/new-relic-only/style-guide/processes-procedures/embedding-videos
  - /docs/new-relic-only/advanced-style-guide/processes-procedures/embedding-videos
  - /docs/new-relic-only/tech-writer-style-guide/processes-procedures/embedding-videos
---

Embedding videos helps readers who prefer to learn by watching rather than reading. It also adds some visual pizzazz to the docs, and can be an easier way to explain complex processes. Our team usually doesn't create videos, but we work with teams that do to show off their content across the site. 

New Relic maintains video in a few places:

* [learn.newrelic.com](https://learn.newrelic.com/) (embeddable via Wistia)
* [youtube.com/c/NewRelicInc](https://www.youtube.com/c/NewRelicInc) (embeddable in YouTube)
* [newrelic.com/resources/webinars](https://newrelic.com/resources/webinars) (live videos, not embeddable)
* [twitch.tv/new_relic](https://www.twitch.tv/new_relic) (live and video on demand, not currently embeddable)

Videos are hosted externally and are embedded in the docs site's page, linking to the external source.

## Embed a video

To embed a Wistia video, add this code:

```
<Video
  type="wistia"
  id="<var>WISTIA_ID</var>"
/>
```

To embed a YouTube video, add this code (the ID is what comes after `v=`in the URL:

```
<Video id="<var>YOUTUBE_ID</var>" type="youtube" />
```

## A video example [#videos]

<Video
  type="wistia"
  id="kpriqz9wy7"
/>
