src/content/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/get-started/new-relic-ios-and-dt.mdx, before:

---
title: New Relic iOS mobile monitoring with distributed tracing
metaDescription: This page describes how to set up iOS distributed tracing.
---
New Relic iOS mobile monitoring agents support distributed tracing. This lets you see how your mobile app activity connects to related services.

Watch this short video (approx. 2:15 minutes) to learn how to:

* Find mobile distributed tracing data in New Relic.
* Filter by standard and custom attributes.

<Video id="tkAxeE5cT2Q" type="youtube" />

## Requirements

Here's what you need to use distributed tracing with iOS: XCFramework agent version 7.3.0

<Callout variant="tip">
Infinite Tracing is not yet available for mobile monitoring.
</Callout>

## How to set up distributed tracing

For mobile agents that support this feature, it’s enabled by default. 

If you prefer to turn off distributed tracing, see the following: [iOS feature flag](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/api-guides/ios-agent-configuration-feature-flags/#dt)

## Find data

Mobile spans appear in any [New Relic distributed tracing UI](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/ui-data/additional-distributed-tracing-features-new-relic-one/) where those spans are part of a trace. 

Here are some tips for finding and querying data:

* You can find end-user-originating traces in any [New Relic One distributed tracing UI](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/ui-data/additional-distributed-tracing-features-new-relic-one).
* In the distributed tracing UI, end-user spans are indicated with the ![New Relic distributed tracing browser span icon](./images/mobile-icon.png "distributed-tracing-browser-span-icon.png") icon.
* To see a span's attributes, select [a span in the UI](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-data#span-details).
* Spans are reported as [Span data](/attribute-dictionary/?event=Span), and can be [queried in New Relic](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data).
* Query tips:
  * Query by browser app name by setting `mobileApp.name` to the browser app name.
  * Query for traces containing at least one mobile app span with `mobileApp.name is not null`.
  * Query for traces containing at least one back-end app with `appName is not null`.
  * Query for traces containing both mobile and back-end spans by combining the two previous conditions.

## Troubleshooting

If you don't see end-user spans, or are having other distributed tracing issues, see [Troubleshooting](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-missing-trace-data#browser-data).

Commit message:

fix(Mobile): Clarify that we recommend the most current agent

src/content/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/get-started/new-relic-ios-and-dt.mdx, after:

---
title: New Relic iOS mobile monitoring with distributed tracing
metaDescription: This page describes how to set up iOS distributed tracing.
---
New Relic iOS mobile monitoring agents support distributed tracing. This lets you see how your mobile app activity connects to related services.

Watch this short video (approx. 2:15 minutes) to learn how to:

* Find mobile distributed tracing data in New Relic.
* Filter by standard and custom attributes.

<Video id="tkAxeE5cT2Q" type="youtube" />

## Requirements

We recommend the most current agent, but to use distributed tracing, you need at least XCFramework agent version 7.3.0.

<Callout variant="tip">
Infinite Tracing is not yet available for mobile monitoring.
</Callout>

## How to set up distributed tracing

For mobile agents that support this feature, it’s enabled by default. 

If you prefer to turn off distributed tracing, see the following: [iOS feature flag](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/api-guides/ios-agent-configuration-feature-flags/#dt)

## Find data

Mobile spans appear in any [New Relic distributed tracing UI](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/ui-data/additional-distributed-tracing-features-new-relic-one/) where those spans are part of a trace. 

Here are some tips for finding and querying data:

* You can find end-user-originating traces in any [New Relic One distributed tracing UI](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/ui-data/additional-distributed-tracing-features-new-relic-one).
* In the distributed tracing UI, end-user spans are indicated with the ![New Relic distributed tracing browser span icon](./images/mobile-icon.png "distributed-tracing-browser-span-icon.png") icon.
* To see a span's attributes, select [a span in the UI](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-data#span-details).
* Spans are reported as [Span data](/attribute-dictionary/?event=Span), and can be [queried in New Relic](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data).
* Query tips:
  * Query by browser app name by setting `mobileApp.name` to the browser app name.
  * Query for traces containing at least one mobile app span with `mobileApp.name is not null`.
  * Query for traces containing at least one back-end app with `appName is not null`.
  * Query for traces containing both mobile and back-end spans by combining the two previous conditions.

## Troubleshooting

If you don't see end-user spans, or are having other distributed tracing issues, see [Troubleshooting](/docs/apm/distributed-tracing/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-missing-trace-data#browser-data).
