src/content/docs/apm/agents/c-sdk/instrumentation/instrument-errors-c-sdk.mdx, before:

---
title: Instrument errors with the C SDK
metaDescription: >-
  Learn how to instrument errors in your C application so you can monitor them
  with New Relic.
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/c-sdk/instrumentation/instrument-errors-c-sdk
  - /docs/instrument-errors-c-agent
---

New Relic defines a [web or non-web transaction](/docs/apm/transactions/intro-transactions/transactions-new-relic-apm) as one logical unit of work in a software application. Once you [instrument a transaction](/docs/instrument-transactions-c-agent), you can also instrument errors in the transaction so you can monitor them in the New Relic UI. In order to use the C SDK to monitor errors, you must manually instrument your source code by adding the New Relic function `newrelic_notice_error()` to it.

<Callout variant="tip">
  To include function calls in error traces, use GNU's `-rdynamic` linker flag to [link your apps when compiling](/docs/install-c-agent-compile-link-your-code#compile). The `-rdynamic` linker flag gives you more meaningful error traces.
</Callout>

## Contents [#in-page-toc]

For an index of documentation available during the private Beta, see the [C SDK table of contents](/docs/c-agent-table-contents).

## Instrument errors in transactions [#errors]

To instrument errors in transactions:

1. [Start a transaction](/docs/instrument-transactions-c-agent#start-transaction).
2. Record an error with `newrelic_notice_error()`, supplying the required parameters.
3. [End the transaction](/docs/instrument-transactions-c-agent#end-transaction).

## View errors

Transaction errors and [error traces](#error-trace-examples) appear on the [**Error analytics** page](/docs/apm/applications-menu/error-analytics/error-analytics-manage-error-traces) in the New Relic UI. The C SDK reports the total number of errors and up to 100 error traces per minute on the **Error analytics** page.

You can also view, query, and visualize transaction errors in New Relic Insights as `TransactionError` events.

Commit message:

feat(C and Go agents): Add logs in context info
The APM agent docs did not mention logs in context, so I added xrefs and screenshots to selected C SDK and Go docs. For DOC-7477

src/content/docs/apm/agents/c-sdk/instrumentation/instrument-errors-c-sdk.mdx, after:

---
title: Instrument errors with the C SDK
metaDescription: 'Learn how to instrument errors in your C application so you can monitor them
  with New Relic.'
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/c-sdk/instrumentation/instrument-errors-c-sdk
  - /docs/instrument-errors-c-agent
---

New Relic defines a [web or non-web transaction](/docs/apm/transactions/intro-transactions/transactions-new-relic-apm) as one logical unit of work in a software application. Once you [instrument a transaction](/docs/instrument-transactions-c-agent), you can also instrument errors in the transaction so you can monitor them in the New Relic UI. In order to use the C SDK to monitor errors, you must manually instrument your source code by adding the New Relic function `newrelic_notice_error()` to it.

<Callout variant="tip">
  To include function calls in error traces, use GNU's `-rdynamic` linker flag to [link your apps when compiling](/docs/install-c-agent-compile-link-your-code#compile). The `-rdynamic` linker flag gives you more meaningful error traces.
</Callout>

## Instrument errors in transactions [#errors]

To instrument errors in transactions:

1. [Start a transaction](/docs/instrument-transactions-c-agent#start-transaction).
2. Record an error with `newrelic_notice_error()`, supplying the required parameters.
3. [End the transaction](/docs/instrument-transactions-c-agent#end-transaction).

## View errors

Transaction errors and [error traces](#error-trace-examples) appear on the [**Error analytics** page](/docs/apm/applications-menu/error-analytics/error-analytics-manage-error-traces) in the New Relic UI. The C SDK reports the total number of errors and up to 100 error traces per minute on the **Error analytics** page.

You can also view, query, and visualize transaction errors in New Relic Insights as `TransactionError` events.

## Examine logs for error details [#logs-context]

You can bring your logs and application's data together to make troubleshooting easier and faster. With [logs in context](/docs/logs/logs-context/c-sdk-configure-logs-context/), you can see log messages related to your errors and traces directly in your app's UI.

1. From the **Errors** page, click on a trace to go to the [**Error details** page](/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/error-analytics/errors-page-find-fix-verify-problems/).
2. From the error details page, click **See logs**.
3. To view details related to an individual log message, click directly on the message.

![Logs in context of APM error details](./images/logs-in-context-errors.png "Logs in context of APM error details")

<figcaption>
  With logs in context, you can examine log data directly within your error details.
</figcaption>

You can also see logs in context of your [infrastructure data](/docs/logs/forward-logs/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent/), such as Kubernetes clusters. No need to switch to another UI page in New Relic One.
