src/content/docs/infrastructure/elastic-container-service-integration/installation/uninstall-ecs-integration.mdx, before:

---
title: Uninstall the ECS integration
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Elastic Container Service integration
  - Installation
metaDescription: How to uninstall New Relic's on-host Amazon ECS integration.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/elastic-container-service-integration/installation/uninstall-ecs-integration
  - /docs/uninstall-ecs-integration
---

New Relic's on-host [ECS integration](/docs/introduction-amazon-ecs-integration) reports and displays performance data from your [Amazon ECS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ecs/index.html) environment. Read on to learn how to uninstall this integration.

## Uninstall

There are several uninstall options, depending on how you [installed](/docs/install-ecs-integration#install-ec2):

* [Uninstall with CloudFormation](#cloudformation)
* [Use automatic installer script](#auto-installer)
* [Manual uninstall](#manual-uninstall)

### CloudFormation uninstall [#cloudformation]

To uninstall the ECS integration using the CloudFormation templates:

1. Go to the [list of stacks in your AWS console.](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?#/stacks?filteringText=&filteringStatus=active&viewNested=true&hideStacks=false)
2. For each New Relic stack:
   1. Select the stack
   2. Click the delete button
   3. Click the delete stack button on the confirmation pop-up.

### Automatic uninstall [#auto-installer]

To uninstall the ECS integration using the installer script:

* For EC2 launch type: run

  ```
  $ ./newrelic-infrastructure-ecs-installer.sh -u -c <var>YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME</var>
  ```
* For Fargate launch type:

  ```
  $ ./newrelic-infrastructure-ecs-installer.sh -f -u -c <var>YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME</var>
  ```

You only need to execute the command once, regardless of the number of nodes in your cluster. The command will delete the [AWS resources created during the install procedure](/docs/install-ecs-integration#aws-resources).

The installer provides a dry run mode that shows you the awscli commands that are going to be executed. The dry run mode for the uninstall process is activated by passing the `-d` flag to the command:

```
$ ./newrelic-infrastructure-ecs-installer.sh -d -u -c <var>YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME</var>
```

### Manual uninstall

To uninstall manually, you must delete all the [AWS resources](/docs/install-ecs-integration#aws-resources) related to the integration. To do this:

1. Check that your AWS profile points to the same region where your ECS cluster was created:

   ```
   $ aws configure get region
   us-east-1

   $ aws ecs list-clusters
   <var>YOUR_CLUSTER_ARNS</var>	
   arn:aws:ecs:us-east-1:<var>YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT</var>:cluster/<var>YOUR_CLUSTER</var>
   ```
2. Delete the Systems Manager (SSM) parameter that stores the New Relic license key:

   ```
   aws ssm delete-parameter --name "/newrelic-infra/ecs/license-key"
   ```
3. Before deleting the IAM role, you need to detach all of its policies. To get a list of the attached policies:

   ```
   aws iam list-attached-role-policies --role-name "NewRelicECSTaskExecutionRole" --output text
   --query 'AttachedPolicies[*].PolicyArn'
   ```
4. Detach all the policies returned in the previous step from the IAM role:

   ```
   aws iam detach-role-policy --role-name "NewRelicECSTaskExecutionRole" --policy-arn "<var>POLICY_ARN</var>"
   ```
5. Delete the IAM role:

   ```
   aws iam delete-role --role-name "NewRelicECSTaskExecutionRole"
   ```
6. Delete the IAM policy `NewRelicSSMLicenseKeyReadAccess`, which grants System Manager license key access:

   ```
   aws iam delete-policy --policy-arn "<var>POLICY_ARN</var>"
   ```
7. The remaining steps are only for EC2 launch type, and not Fargate:
   1. Delete the service:

      ```
      aws ecs delete-service --service "newrelic-infra" --cluster "<var>YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME</var>"
      ```
   2. List the task definition for the `newrelic-infra` family of tasks:

      ```
      aws ecs list-task-definitions \
      --family-prefix newrelic-infra \
                  --output text \
                  --query taskDefinitionArns
      ```
   3. Deregister the tasks:

      ```
      aws ecs deregister-task-definition --task-definition "<var>TASK_DEFINITION_ARN</var>"
      ```

Commit message:

feat: add ecs external launch type installation

src/content/docs/infrastructure/elastic-container-service-integration/installation/uninstall-ecs-integration.mdx, after:

---
title: Uninstall the ECS integration
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Elastic Container Service integration
  - Installation
metaDescription: How to uninstall New Relic's on-host Amazon ECS integration.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/elastic-container-service-integration/installation/uninstall-ecs-integration
  - /docs/uninstall-ecs-integration
---

New Relic's on-host [ECS integration](/docs/introduction-amazon-ecs-integration) reports and displays performance data from your [Amazon ECS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ecs/index.html) environment. Read on to learn how to uninstall this integration.

## Uninstall

There are several uninstall options, depending on how you [installed](/docs/install-ecs-integration#install-ec2):

* [Uninstall with CloudFormation](#cloudformation)
* [Use automatic installer script](#auto-installer)
* [Manual uninstall](#manual-uninstall)

### CloudFormation uninstall [#cloudformation]

To uninstall the ECS integration using the CloudFormation templates:

1. Go to the [list of stacks in your AWS console.](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?#/stacks?filteringText=&filteringStatus=active&viewNested=true&hideStacks=false)
2. For each New Relic stack:
   1. Select the stack
   2. Click the delete button
   3. Click the delete stack button on the confirmation pop-up.

### Automatic uninstall [#auto-installer]

To uninstall the ECS integration using the installer script:

* For EC2 and EXTERNAL launch type: run

  ```
  $ ./newrelic-infrastructure-ecs-installer.sh -u -c <var>YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME</var>
  ```
* For Fargate launch type:

  ```
  $ ./newrelic-infrastructure-ecs-installer.sh -f -u -c <var>YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME</var>
  ```

You only need to execute the command once, regardless of the number of nodes in your cluster. The command will delete the [AWS resources created during the install procedure](/docs/install-ecs-integration#aws-resources).

The installer provides a dry run mode that shows you the awscli commands that are going to be executed. The dry run mode for the uninstall process is activated by passing the `-d` flag to the command:

```
$ ./newrelic-infrastructure-ecs-installer.sh -d -u -c <var>YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME</var>
```

### Manual uninstall

To uninstall manually, you must delete all the [AWS resources](/docs/install-ecs-integration#aws-resources) related to the integration. To do this:

1. Check that your AWS profile points to the same region where your ECS cluster was created:

   ```
   $ aws configure get region
   us-east-1

   $ aws ecs list-clusters
   <var>YOUR_CLUSTER_ARNS</var>	
   arn:aws:ecs:us-east-1:<var>YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT</var>:cluster/<var>YOUR_CLUSTER</var>
   ```
2. Delete the Systems Manager (SSM) parameter that stores the New Relic license key:

   ```
   aws ssm delete-parameter --name "/newrelic-infra/ecs/license-key"
   ```
3. Before deleting the IAM role, you need to detach all of its policies. To get a list of the attached policies:

   ```
   aws iam list-attached-role-policies --role-name "NewRelicECSTaskExecutionRole" --output text
   --query 'AttachedPolicies[*].PolicyArn'
   ```
4. Detach all the policies returned in the previous step from the IAM role:

   ```
   aws iam detach-role-policy --role-name "NewRelicECSTaskExecutionRole" --policy-arn "<var>POLICY_ARN</var>"
   ```
5. Delete the IAM role:

   ```
   aws iam delete-role --role-name "NewRelicECSTaskExecutionRole"
   ```
6. Delete the IAM policy `NewRelicSSMLicenseKeyReadAccess`, which grants System Manager license key access:

   ```
   aws iam delete-policy --policy-arn "<var>POLICY_ARN</var>"
   ```
7. The remaining steps are only for EC2 and EXTERNAL launch type, and not Fargate:
   1. Delete the services:

      ```
      aws ecs delete-service --service "newrelic-infra" --cluster "<var>YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME</var>"
      ```
      ```
      aws ecs delete-service --service "newrelic-infra-external" --cluster "<var>YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME</var>"
      ```
   2. List the task definition for the `newrelic-infra` family of tasks:

      ```
      aws ecs list-task-definitions \
      --family-prefix newrelic-infra \
                  --output text \
                  --query taskDefinitionArns
      ```
   3. Deregister the tasks:

      ```
      aws ecs deregister-task-definition --task-definition "<var>TASK_DEFINITION_ARN</var>"
      ```
