src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/default-time-zone-setting.mdx, before:

---
title: Default time zone setting
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - General account settings
metaDescription: How to change the default date/time displayed in the New Relic UI.
redirects:
  - /docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-setup/change-your-account-time-zone-setting
  - /docs/accounts-partnerships/install-new-relic/account-setup/change-your-account-time-zone-setting
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-incidents/select-time-zone-alert-activity
  - /node/7316
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts-beta/reviewing-alert-incidents/selecting-time-zone-alerts
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts-beta/reviewing-alert-incidents/select-time-zone-alerts
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts-beta/reviewing-alert-incidents/select-time-zone-alert-activity
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/reviewing-alert-incidents/select-time-zone-alert-activity
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/alert-incidents/select-time-zone-alert-activity
  - /docs/accounts/install-new-relic/account-setup/change-your-account-time-zone-setting
---

Your personal timezone setting controls most time-related settings in the New Relic UI, with a few exceptions, as explained in this document. If you change your timezone setting, this may take up to 24 hours to be reflected in the UI.

## Change your default time zone [#exceptions]

To change your default time zone for your New Relic account:

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)**.
2. Select the [account dropdown](/docs/accounts-partnerships/education/getting-started-new-relic/glossary#account-dropdown), then select **User preferences**.

## Exceptions [#exceptions]

Users managed via [automated user management](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/automated-user-provisioning-single-sign) can't change their time zone in the UI. That must be configured in your identity provider.   

Some New Relic features do not rely on the **User preferences** time zone settings. The following use Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) and aren't affected by user preferences:

* [Alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/get-started/introduction-alerts)
* [REST API v2](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/requirements/specifying-time-range-v2#utc)

There may be other features where the time zone doesn't rely on your default time zone settings.

Commit message:

fix(scim & accounts): add ability to set timezone

src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/default-time-zone-setting.mdx, after:

---
title: Set your time zone
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Accounts and billing
  - General account settings
metaDescription: How to change the default date/time displayed in the New Relic UI.
redirects:
  - /docs/accounts-partnerships/accounts/account-setup/change-your-account-time-zone-setting
  - /docs/accounts-partnerships/install-new-relic/account-setup/change-your-account-time-zone-setting
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-incidents/select-time-zone-alert-activity
  - /node/7316
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts-beta/reviewing-alert-incidents/selecting-time-zone-alerts
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts-beta/reviewing-alert-incidents/select-time-zone-alerts
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts-beta/reviewing-alert-incidents/select-time-zone-alert-activity
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/reviewing-alert-incidents/select-time-zone-alert-activity
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/alert-incidents/select-time-zone-alert-activity
  - /docs/accounts/install-new-relic/account-setup/change-your-account-time-zone-setting
---

Your personal time zone setting controls most time-related settings in the New Relic UI, with a few exceptions. 

## Change your default time zone [#exceptions]

To change your default time zone for your New Relic account:

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)**.
2. Select the [account dropdown](/docs/accounts-partnerships/education/getting-started-new-relic/glossary#account-dropdown), then select **User preferences**.
3. Change your time zone. 
4. Optional: If you're a user managed via [automated user management](/docs/accounts/accounts/automated-user-management/automated-user-provisioning-single-sign), you're able to toggle using your identity provider's time zone. 

When you change your time zone, this can take up to 24 hours to be reflected in the UI.

## Exceptions where your time zone doesn't apply [#exceptions]

Some New Relic features do not rely on the **User preferences** time zone settings. The following use Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) and aren't affected by user preferences:

* [Alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/get-started/introduction-alerts)
* [REST API v2](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/requirements/specifying-time-range-v2#utc)

There may be other features where the time zone doesn't rely on your default time zone settings.
