src/content/docs/network-performance-monitoring/get-started/npm-introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Get started with Network Performance Monitoring
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Network Performance Monitoring
  - Get started
metaDescription: Get started with Network Performance Monitoring in New Relic One.
---

When system performance suffers, you need to know if it’s due to your code, your infrastructure, or the underlying network. And you need to know fast, so you can focus your efforts. With Network Performance Monitoring you can correlate and analyze application, infrastructure, digital experience, and network data all in one place, and understand how network performance and overall system performance impact each other.

![Network Performance Monitoring Navigator](./images/overview_navigator.jpg 'Network Performance Monitoring Navigator')

<figcaption>Using Navigator with Network Performance Monitoring.</figcaption>

Network Performance Monitoring adds the context of network data to the application and infrastructure data you already collect in [New Relic One](https://one.newrelic.com). By monitoring your network data, you can:

- Analyze and understand the performance of your entire stack (application and infrastructure) for a holistic understanding of your system performance.
- Have all the data in a single platform to eliminate blind spots.
- See at first glance whether a network is implicated in an issue.

<ButtonGroup>
  <ButtonLink role="button" to="https://newrelic.com/signup" variant="primary">
    Sign up for free!
  </ButtonLink>
</ButtonGroup>

No credit card required. Already have an account? [Login](http://one.newrelic.com/).

<Video id="2GH8YrEv9YA" type="youtube" />

## Types of network performance data [#network-performance-data-types]

You can monitor the following types of network performance data:

- **SNMP data**: Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) is an application–layer protocol for exchanging management information between network devices. To send SNMP data to [New Relic One](https://one.newrelic.com), see [Set up SNMP data monitoring](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/snmp-performance-monitoring).
- **Network flow data**: It captures information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your on-premises network. To send network flow data to [New Relic One](https://one.newrelic.com), see [Set up network flow data monitoring](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring).

<Callout variant="important">
  We recommend configuring both SNMP and network flow data for better visibility
  into your network. This will provide both performance metrics and traffic
  patterns to troubleshoot and optimize your network.
</Callout>

## High level architecture overview [#architecture]

Our solution is based on the [ktranslate](https://github.com/kentik/ktranslate) docker container developed by our partner, Kentik. This single container image is hosted in your environment to collect and process your data to be exported to the Event, Metric, and Log APIs and displayed in New Relic One.

![Overview of Network Performance Monitoring architecture](./images/NPM_architecture.png 'Overview of Network Performance Monitoring architecture')

<figcaption>
  Overview of Network Performance Monitoring architecture.
</figcaption>

Commit message:

Add FedRAMP callout
Added callout for FedRAMP authorization for both SNMP and Network Flows data

src/content/docs/network-performance-monitoring/get-started/npm-introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Get started with Network Performance Monitoring
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Network Performance Monitoring
  - Get started
metaDescription: Get started with Network Performance Monitoring in New Relic One.
---

When system performance suffers, you need to know if it’s due to your code, your infrastructure, or the underlying network. And you need to know fast, so you can focus your efforts. With Network Performance Monitoring you can correlate and analyze application, infrastructure, digital experience, and network data all in one place, and understand how network performance and overall system performance impact each other.

<Callout variant="tip">
  Network Performance Monitoring is FedRAMP Authorized! 
  Check out the simple config to use the New Relic [FedRAMP-authorized API endpoints](/docs/security/security-privacy/compliance/fedramp-compliant-endpoints/#data-ingest-apis) for [SNMP](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/snmp-performance-monitoring/#manual-setup) and [Network Flows](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring/#manual-setup).
</Callout>

![Network Performance Monitoring Navigator](./images/overview_navigator.jpg 'Network Performance Monitoring Navigator')

<figcaption>Using Navigator with Network Performance Monitoring.</figcaption>

Network Performance Monitoring adds the context of network data to the application and infrastructure data you already collect in [New Relic One](https://one.newrelic.com). By monitoring your network data, you can:

- Analyze and understand the performance of your entire stack (application and infrastructure) for a holistic understanding of your system performance.
- Have all the data in a single platform to eliminate blind spots.
- See at first glance whether a network is implicated in an issue.

<ButtonGroup>
  <ButtonLink role="button" to="https://newrelic.com/signup" variant="primary">
    Sign up for free!
  </ButtonLink>
</ButtonGroup>

No credit card required. Already have an account? [Login](http://one.newrelic.com/).

<Video id="2GH8YrEv9YA" type="youtube" />

## Types of network performance data [#network-performance-data-types]

You can monitor the following types of network performance data:

- **SNMP data**: Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) is an application–layer protocol for exchanging management information between network devices. To send SNMP data to [New Relic One](https://one.newrelic.com), see [Set up SNMP data monitoring](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/snmp-performance-monitoring).
- **Network flow data**: It captures information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your on-premises network. To send network flow data to [New Relic One](https://one.newrelic.com), see [Set up network flow data monitoring](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring).

<Callout variant="important">
  We recommend configuring both SNMP and network flow data for better visibility
  into your network. This will provide both performance metrics and traffic
  patterns to troubleshoot and optimize your network.
</Callout>

## High level architecture overview [#architecture]

Our solution is based on the [ktranslate](https://github.com/kentik/ktranslate) docker container developed by our partner, Kentik. This single container image is hosted in your environment to collect and process your data to be exported to the Event, Metric, and Log APIs and displayed in New Relic One.

![Overview of Network Performance Monitoring architecture](./images/NPM_architecture.png 'Overview of Network Performance Monitoring architecture')

<figcaption>
  Overview of Network Performance Monitoring architecture.
</figcaption>
