src/content/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/installation/install-new-relic-ruby-agent.mdx, before:

---
title: Install the New Relic Ruby agent
tags:
  - Agents
  - Ruby agent
  - Installation
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'Rails 2.0 and higher: To install New Relic''s Ruby agent as a gem, start here.'
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/install-new-relic-ruby-agent
  - /docs/docs/ruby-agent-installation-gem
  - /docs/ruby/manually-configuring-the-ruby-agent
  - /docs/ruby/ruby-agent-installation
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation-and-configuration/ruby-agent-installation
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation-configuration/ruby-agent-installation
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/ruby-agent-installation
---

Our Ruby agent auto-instruments your code so you can start monitoring applications. You can use our launcher, or follow the instructions in this document to complete a basic Ruby agent installation.

<ButtonLink
  role="button"
  to="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJ0dWNzb24ucGxnLWluc3RydW1lbnQtZXZlcnl0aGluZyJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJzZXR1cC1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1ydWJ5LWludGVncmF0aW9uIiwiYWNjb3VudElkIjoyNjQwNDA5fQ==&platform[accountId]=1"
  variant="primary"
>
  Add Ruby data
</ButtonLink>

## Install the gem [#Installing_the_Gem]

<Callout variant="important">
  If you are using the agent in a Docker container, install the agent **within each** container.
</Callout>

1. The Ruby agent's gem is available from [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org/) as `newrelic_rpm`. For applications using Bundler, add this gem to the Gemfile:

   ```
   gem 'newrelic_rpm'
   ```
2. To use Infinite Tracing, the Infinite Tracing gem is also available from rubygems.org as `newrelic-infinite_tracing`. For applications using Bundler, additionally include the Infinite Tracing gem in the Gemfile:

   ```
   gem 'newrelic-infinite_tracing'
   ```
3. The next step varies depending on if you are using Rails or Sinatra:

   <table>
     <thead>
       <tr>
         <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
           **Ruby installation**
         </th>

         <th>
           **Comments**
         </th>
       </tr>
     </thead>

     <tbody>
       <tr>
         <td>
           If using Rails or Sinatra
         </td>

         <td>
           * **Rails**: If you're using Rails 3 or higher, or Rails 2.3 in the [recommended configuration](http://bundler.io/v1.12/rails3.html), Rails will automatically call `Bundler.require` and cause `newrelic_rpm` to be required during startup of your application.
           * **Sinatra**: If you're using Sinatra or another framework, you must manually call `require 'newrelic_rpm'`. Additionally, if you're using Infinite Tracing, manually call `require 'newrelic/infinite_tracing'`. 
           
           Alternately, manually call `Bundler.require`, which also enables Infinite Tracing. 
         </td>
       </tr>

       <tr>
         <td>
           If not using Rails or Sinatra
         </td>

         <td>
           In order to use automatic browser application monitoring and Cross application tracing in a Rack application that does **not** use Sinatra or Rails, you must manually include additional [Rack middlewares](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/frameworks/rack-middlewares#manual) provided by the agent. Place the New Relic gem as low in the list as possible, allowing the frameworks above it to be instrumented when the gem initializes.
         </td>
       </tr>
     </tbody>
   </table>

## Install the configuration file [#Configuration_file]

After installing the agent, you will need to install the `newrelic.yml` configuration file, and name your app:

1. If you haven't already, [create a New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup). It's free, forever. Or, [sign in](https://one.newrelic.com/).
2. From the [account dropdown](/docs/accounts-partnerships/education/getting-started-new-relic/glossary#account-dropdown), select **Account settings**.
3. On the **Account settings** page, look for the **Download a clean configuration file** section and click the `newrelic.yml` file.
4. Copy the `newrelic.yml` file into the `config` sub-directory of your application.
5. [Change the default application name](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/app-naming/name-your-application) to a meaningful name.

Alternatively, you can generate a `newrelic.yml` file manually with the following command:

```
newrelic install --license_key="YOUR_KEY" "My application"
```

You may also use the `--force` option with this command if you need to overwrite an existing `newrelic.yml`.

## Update the agent [#Updating_the_Agent]

See [Upgrade Ruby agent versions](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/upgrade-ruby-agent-versions).

## Install agent outside production environments [#Outside_production_environments]

Typically you will install the Ruby agent in your production environment. If you want to try out the Ruby agent in a development or localhost environment, verify in the relevant `environment:` block of the `newrelic.yml` file that the `monitor_mode` config value has been set to `true`.

For example, to deploy New Relic in your [development environment](/docs/ruby/developer-mode) and still be able to view your app's performance metrics: In the `development:` block, set the `monitor_mode` config value to `true`.

## Uninstall the Ruby agent gem [#Uninstalling_Gem]

To uninstall the Ruby agent using Bundler, remove `gem 'newrelic_rpm'` from your Gemfile. If you are not using Bundler, remove all references to `newrelic_rpm` from your `environment.rb` file.

## Install on older versions of Rails [#Older_Rails_installations]

If you're installing the Ruby agent on Rails 2.x, and aren't using Bundler, follow these procedures.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        **Ruby installation**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Comments**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr id="Rails2_Without_Bundler">
      <td>
        Rails 2.1 - 2.3 without Bundler
      </td>

      <td>
        1. Install the gem using `gem install newrelic_rpm`.
        2. Edit `environment.rb`, and add to the initializer block:

           ```
           config.gem "newrelic_rpm"
           ```
        3. If enabling Infinite Tracing, add the following to the next line in the `environment.rb` file:

           ```
           config.gem "newrelic-infinite_tracing"
           ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr id="Older_Rails_installations">
      <td>
        Rails earlier than 2.1
      </td>

      <td>
        New Relic does not officially support Rails versions prior to 2.1. However, if you want to use New Relic for Rails versions 2.0.\*, edit `environment.rb` and add this statement after the `initializer:` block:

        ```
        require "newrelic_rpm"
        ```

        **Infinite Tracing**

        If enabling Infinite Tracing, add the following to the next line in the `environment.rb` file:

        ```
        require "newrelic/infinite_tracing"
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

feat(APM agent LiC): PHP Python Ruby
The APM agent docs did not have info about logs in context, so I added it to selected docs for PHP, Python, and Ruby

src/content/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/installation/install-new-relic-ruby-agent.mdx, after:

---
title: Install the New Relic Ruby agent
tags:
  - Agents
  - Ruby agent
  - Installation
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'Rails 2.0 and higher: To install New Relic''s Ruby agent as a gem, start here.'
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/install-new-relic-ruby-agent
  - /docs/docs/ruby-agent-installation-gem
  - /docs/ruby/manually-configuring-the-ruby-agent
  - /docs/ruby/ruby-agent-installation
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation-and-configuration/ruby-agent-installation
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation-configuration/ruby-agent-installation
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/ruby-agent-installation
---

Our Ruby agent auto-instruments your code so you can start monitoring applications. You can use our launcher, or follow the instructions in this document to complete a basic Ruby agent installation.

<ButtonLink
  role="button"
  to="https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJ0dWNzb24ucGxnLWluc3RydW1lbnQtZXZlcnl0aGluZyJ9&cards[0]=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJzZXR1cC1uZXJkbGV0cy5zZXR1cC1ydWJ5LWludGVncmF0aW9uIiwiYWNjb3VudElkIjoyNjQwNDA5fQ==&platform[accountId]=1"
  variant="primary"
>
  Add Ruby data
</ButtonLink>

## Install the gem [#Installing_the_Gem]

<Callout variant="important">
  If you are using the agent in a Docker container, install the agent **within each** container.
</Callout>

1. The Ruby agent's gem is available from [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org/) as `newrelic_rpm`. For applications using Bundler, add this gem to the Gemfile:

   ```
   gem 'newrelic_rpm'
   ```
2. To use Infinite Tracing, the Infinite Tracing gem is also available from rubygems.org as `newrelic-infinite_tracing`. For applications using Bundler, additionally include the Infinite Tracing gem in the Gemfile:

   ```
   gem 'newrelic-infinite_tracing'
   ```
3. The next step varies depending on if you are using Rails or Sinatra:

   <table>
     <thead>
       <tr>
         <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
           **Ruby installation**
         </th>

         <th>
           **Comments**
         </th>
       </tr>
     </thead>

     <tbody>
       <tr>
         <td>
           If using Rails or Sinatra
         </td>

         <td>
           * **Rails**: If you're using Rails 3 or higher, or Rails 2.3 in the [recommended configuration](http://bundler.io/v1.12/rails3.html), Rails will automatically call `Bundler.require` and cause `newrelic_rpm` to be required during startup of your application.
           * **Sinatra**: If you're using Sinatra or another framework, you must manually call `require 'newrelic_rpm'`. Additionally, if you're using Infinite Tracing, manually call `require 'newrelic/infinite_tracing'`. 
           
           Alternately, manually call `Bundler.require`, which also enables Infinite Tracing. 
         </td>
       </tr>

       <tr>
         <td>
           If not using Rails or Sinatra
         </td>

         <td>
           In order to use automatic browser application monitoring and Cross application tracing in a Rack application that does **not** use Sinatra or Rails, you must manually include additional [Rack middlewares](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/frameworks/rack-middlewares#manual) provided by the agent. Place the New Relic gem as low in the list as possible, allowing the frameworks above it to be instrumented when the gem initializes.
         </td>
       </tr>
     </tbody>
   </table>

## Install the configuration file [#Configuration_file]

After installing the agent, you will need to install the `newrelic.yml` configuration file, and name your app:

1. If you haven't already, [create a New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup). It's free, forever. Or, [sign in](https://one.newrelic.com/).
2. From the [account dropdown](/docs/accounts-partnerships/education/getting-started-new-relic/glossary#account-dropdown), select **Account settings**.
3. On the **Account settings** page, look for the **Download a clean configuration file** section and click the `newrelic.yml` file.
4. Copy the `newrelic.yml` file into the `config` sub-directory of your application.
5. [Change the default application name](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/app-naming/name-your-application) to a meaningful name.

Alternatively, you can generate a `newrelic.yml` file manually with the following command:

```
newrelic install --license_key="YOUR_KEY" "My application"
```

You may also use the `--force` option with this command if you need to overwrite an existing `newrelic.yml`.

## View logs for your APM and infrastructure data [#logs-context]

You can also bring your logs and application's data together to make troubleshooting easier and faster. With [logs in context](/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-ruby/), you can see log messages related to your errors and traces directly in your app's UI. You can also see logs in context of your [infrastructure data](/docs/logs/forward-logs/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent/), such as Kubernetes clusters. No need to switch to another UI page in New Relic One.

## Update the agent [#Updating_the_Agent]

See [Upgrade Ruby agent versions](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/upgrade-ruby-agent-versions).

## Install agent outside production environments [#Outside_production_environments]

Typically you will install the Ruby agent in your production environment. If you want to try out the Ruby agent in a development or localhost environment, verify in the relevant `environment:` block of the `newrelic.yml` file that the `monitor_mode` config value has been set to `true`.

For example, to deploy New Relic in your [development environment](/docs/ruby/developer-mode) and still be able to view your app's performance metrics: In the `development:` block, set the `monitor_mode` config value to `true`.

## Uninstall the Ruby agent gem [#Uninstalling_Gem]

To uninstall the Ruby agent using Bundler, remove `gem 'newrelic_rpm'` from your Gemfile. If you are not using Bundler, remove all references to `newrelic_rpm` from your `environment.rb` file.

## Install on older versions of Rails [#Older_Rails_installations]

If you're installing the Ruby agent on Rails 2.x, and aren't using Bundler, follow these procedures.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        **Ruby installation**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Comments**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr id="Rails2_Without_Bundler">
      <td>
        Rails 2.1 - 2.3 without Bundler
      </td>

      <td>
        1. Install the gem using `gem install newrelic_rpm`.
        2. Edit `environment.rb`, and add to the initializer block:

           ```
           config.gem "newrelic_rpm"
           ```
        3. If enabling Infinite Tracing, add the following to the next line in the `environment.rb` file:

           ```
           config.gem "newrelic-infinite_tracing"
           ```
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr id="Older_Rails_installations">
      <td>
        Rails earlier than 2.1
      </td>

      <td>
        New Relic does not officially support Rails versions prior to 2.1. However, if you want to use New Relic for Rails versions 2.0.\*, edit `environment.rb` and add this statement after the `initializer:` block:

        ```
        require "newrelic_rpm"
        ```

        **Infinite Tracing**

        If enabling Infinite Tracing, add the following to the next line in the `environment.rb` file:

        ```
        require "newrelic/infinite_tracing"
        ```
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
