src/content/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/installation/ruby-agent-installation-rails-plugin.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Ruby agent installation: Rails plugin'
tags:
  - Agents
  - Ruby agent
  - Installation
metaDescription: 'Rails 1.2.6 and earlier: Install New Relic''s Rails plugin as a gem in order to have better control over versions and dependencies.'
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/ruby-agent-installation-rails-plugin
  - /docs/ruby/ruby-agent-installation-plugin
  - /docs/ruby/ruby-agent-installation-rails-plugin
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation-and-configuration/ruby-agent-installation-rails-plugin
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation-configuration/ruby-agent-installation-rails-plugin
---

These instructions are for installing the Ruby agent as a Rails plugin. For most use cases, you should instead [install the agent gem](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation-configuration/ruby-agent-installation#Installing_the_Gem).

## Contents [#qiklinks]

## Install the New Relic Rails plugin [#Installing_the_Plugin]

<Callout variant="important">
  New Relic strongly recommends [installing the Ruby agent as a gem](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation-configuration/ruby-agent-installation#Installing_the_Gem) in order to have better control over versions and dependencies.
</Callout>

To install the Rails plugin from Github, use the following commands for Rails versions 2 or higher:

```
script/plugin install git://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-ruby-agent.git
mv vendor/plugins/rpm vendor/plugins/newrelic-ruby-agent
```

This will export the Rails plugin into your application's `vendor/plugins` directory. If you cannot install the Rails plugin directly from the git URL, you can clone the repository into the vendor/plugins directory.

## Update the configuration file [#Configuration_file]

After installing the agent, copy the `newrelic.yml` file into the `config` subdirectory of your application. You can download a fresh `newrelic.yml` that includes your [license key](/docs/subscriptions/license-key) from the **Account settings** when logged in to New Relic.

<Callout variant="important">
  As part of the installation process, change the default [application name](/docs/site/naming-your-application) to a meaningful name.
</Callout>

## Update the newrelic.yml file [#Updating_newrelicyml]

Whenever you update the agent, double-check that your Ruby agent configuration file (`config/newrelic.yml`) is up to date: Open the default `newrelic.yml` file that lives in the Ruby agent's plugin folder (`vendor/plugins/newrelic-ruby-agent/newrelic.yml`). Look for new configuration options that are not in your `config/newrelic.yml` file.

## Update the Ruby agent [#Update_the_Agent]

When using Subversion with the Rails plugin, be sure to remove the old agent plugin before reinstalling.

<Callout variant="tip">
  Use the gem if possible.
</Callout>

```
svn rm vendor/plugins/newrelic-ruby-agent svn commit vendor/plugins -m "removing old version of newrelic"
```

Then, to install the latest Ruby agent plugin:

```
script/rails plugin install git://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-ruby-agent.git vendor/plugins/newrelic-ruby-agent
mv vendor/plugins/rpm vendor/plugins/newrelic-ruby-agent
svn add vendor/plugins/newrelic-ruby-agent
svn commit vendor/plugins -m "upgrading newrelic to version X.X.X"
```

## Uninstall the Rails plugin [#Uninstalling_Plugin]

To uninstall the Rails plugin:

```
svn rm vendor/plugins/newrelic-ruby-agent svn commit vendor/plugins
```

Commit message:

feat(APM agent LiC): PHP Python Ruby
The APM agent docs did not have info about logs in context, so I added it to selected docs for PHP, Python, and Ruby

src/content/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/installation/ruby-agent-installation-rails-plugin.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Ruby agent installation: Rails plugin'
tags:
  - Agents
  - Ruby agent
  - Installation
metaDescription: 'Rails 1.2.6 and earlier: Install New Relic''s Rails plugin as a gem in order to have better control over versions and dependencies.'
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation/ruby-agent-installation-rails-plugin
  - /docs/ruby/ruby-agent-installation-plugin
  - /docs/ruby/ruby-agent-installation-rails-plugin
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation-and-configuration/ruby-agent-installation-rails-plugin
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation-configuration/ruby-agent-installation-rails-plugin
---

These instructions are for installing the Ruby agent as a Rails plugin. For most use cases, you should instead [install the agent gem](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation-configuration/ruby-agent-installation#Installing_the_Gem).

## Install the New Relic Rails plugin [#Installing_the_Plugin]

<Callout variant="important">
  We strongly recommend [installing the Ruby agent as a gem](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/installation-configuration/ruby-agent-installation#Installing_the_Gem) in order to have better control over versions and dependencies.
</Callout>

To install the Rails plugin from Github, use the following commands for Rails versions 2 or higher:

```
script/plugin install git://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-ruby-agent.git
mv vendor/plugins/rpm vendor/plugins/newrelic-ruby-agent
```

This will export the Rails plugin into your application's `vendor/plugins` directory. If you cannot install the Rails plugin directly from the git URL, you can clone the repository into the vendor/plugins directory.

## Update the configuration file [#Configuration_file]

After installing the agent, copy the `newrelic.yml` file into the `config` subdirectory of your application. You can download a fresh `newrelic.yml` that includes your [license key](/docs/subscriptions/license-key) from the **Account settings** when logged in to New Relic.

<Callout variant="important">
  As part of the installation process, change the default [application name](/docs/site/naming-your-application) to a meaningful name.
</Callout>

## Update the newrelic.yml file [#Updating_newrelicyml]

Whenever you update the agent, double-check that your Ruby agent configuration file (`config/newrelic.yml`) is up to date: Open the default `newrelic.yml` file that lives in the Ruby agent's plugin folder (`vendor/plugins/newrelic-ruby-agent/newrelic.yml`). Look for new configuration options that are not in your `config/newrelic.yml` file.

## View logs for your APM and infrastructure data [#logs-context]

You can also bring your logs and application's data together to make troubleshooting easier and faster. With [logs in context](/docs/logs/logs-context/configure-logs-context-ruby/), you can see log messages related to your errors and traces directly in your app's UI. You can also see logs in context of your [infrastructure data](/docs/logs/forward-logs/forward-your-logs-using-infrastructure-agent/), such as Kubernetes clusters. No need to switch to another UI page in New Relic One.

## Update the Ruby agent [#Update_the_Agent]

When using Subversion with the Rails plugin, be sure to remove the old agent plugin before reinstalling.

<Callout variant="tip">
  Use the gem if possible.
</Callout>

```
svn rm vendor/plugins/newrelic-ruby-agent svn commit vendor/plugins -m "removing old version of newrelic"
```

Then, to install the latest Ruby agent plugin:

```
script/rails plugin install git://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-ruby-agent.git vendor/plugins/newrelic-ruby-agent
mv vendor/plugins/rpm vendor/plugins/newrelic-ruby-agent
svn add vendor/plugins/newrelic-ruby-agent
svn commit vendor/plugins -m "upgrading newrelic to version X.X.X"
```

## Uninstall the Rails plugin [#Uninstalling_Plugin]

To uninstall the Rails plugin:

```
svn rm vendor/plugins/newrelic-ruby-agent svn commit vendor/plugins
```
