src/content/docs/alerts/create-alert/condition-details/title-template.mdx, before:

---
title: Title template for NRQL alert conditions
tags:
  - Alerts and applied intelligence
  - Alerts
  - Alert conditions
metaDescription: 'Use the title template when you create an alert condition so you can easily identify related incidents.'
redirects:
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

A title template is used when incidents are opened by the condition. It overrides the default title.

## Why use a title template? [#why-titles]

An alert condition is the foundation for incident creation. Whether you're using our guided mode or crafting a condition from a chart or policy, using a unique title template is the final step to creating an alert condition.

Using the title template is optional but we recommend it. An alert condition defines a set of thresholds you want to monitor. If any of those thresholds are breached, an incident is created. Meaningful title templates help you pinpoint issues and resolve outages faster.

<img
  title="alert details page"
  alt="A screenshot depicting the final step of creating an alert condition- the alert details page"
  src="/images/alerts_screenshot-crop_adding-alert-details-to-an-alert-condition.webp"
/>

<figcaption>
  Go to  <DNT>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**</DNT> > <DNT> **Alerts** </DNT> > <DNT> **Alert Conditions**</DNT> and select a pre-existing alert condition or create a new alert condition to use the title template to easily identify related incidents.
</figcaption>

## Before you begin [#begin]

Here are some key things to note before you use our title template:

* **Compatibility**: The title template feature is available for NRQL conditions only.
* **Character limit**: The maximum length for a title template is 256 characters.
* **Formatting**: The title template must follow a valid [Handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/guide/) format.
* **Lost signal incidents**: For incidents triggered by a lost signal, the default title will always be used. To learn more about signal loss, see [Loss of signal and gap filling](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/nerdgraph-api-loss-signal-gap-filling/).

## Understand the title template [#example]

Let's say you run an e-commerce site and you have created an alert condition to trigger an incident when networks errors are high. You can use a title template to make incidents from this condition easily identifiable.

You have named this alert condition `High Network Errors`. But you want the incident title to reflect more information about the entity and priority.

**Example**:

```handlebars
{{conditionName}} Affecting {{entity.name}} - {{entity.type}} - {{priority}}
```

This template would generate the following incident title:

```
High Network Errors Affecting Entity123 - Kubernetes Pod - Critical
```

## Use the title template [#use-titles]

You can interact with the title template in two ways: through the UI or using GraphQL.  Follow these steps to learn how.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="template-ui"
    title="Create a title template in the UI"
  >
    1. Navigate to the NRQL condition builder. For instructions, see [Alert conditions](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/alert-conditions/).
    2. Create your NRQL condition.
    3. In the final step, **Add details**, enter your title template in the **Title template** field.
    4. Save the condition.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="template-ui"
    title="Create a title template in the GraphQL"
  >
    In GraphQL, the title template field is called `titleTemplate`. Here's an example mutation to update a NRQL static condition to add a title template:

    ```graphql
    mutation {
      alertsNrqlConditionStaticUpdate(
        accountId: 123456
        id: 456789
        condition: {titleTemplate: "{{conditionName}} has triggered an incident"}
      ) {
        titleTemplate
      }
    }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Use attributes to further define your condition [#attributes]

You can include a subset of incident event attributes in your title templates to add more context.

Here's how:

* **Use the format `{{AN_ATTRIBUTE}}`**. For example:

  ```handlebars
  {{conditionName}} has triggered an incident
  ```
* **Tag attributes**: For tags, use the format `{{tags.TAG_NAME}}`.
* **Facet clause tags**: If a NRQL condition uses a `FACET` clause, you can use `tags` formatting to use those values in your title template. For example, if the NRQL query included `FACET hostName, cluster`, you could then use this:

  ```handlebars
  Host {{tags.hostName}}, cluster {{tags.cluster}} incident
  ```

Tag names cannot contain spaces, but the expanded values can. For a full list of available attributes, see [Incident event attributes](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/advanced-alerts/understand-technical-concepts/incident-event-attributes).

Commit message:

uodated term incident wth alert event

src/content/docs/alerts/create-alert/condition-details/title-template.mdx, after:

---
title: Title template for NRQL alert conditions
tags:
  - Alerts and applied intelligence
  - Alerts
  - Alert conditions
metaDescription: 'Use the title template when you create an alert condition so you can easily identify related alert events.'
redirects:
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

A title template is used when alert events are opened by the condition. It overrides the default title.

## Why use a title template? [#why-titles]

An alert condition is the foundation for alert event creation. Whether you're using our guided mode or crafting a condition from a chart or policy, using a unique title template is the final step to creating an alert condition.

Using the title template is optional but we recommend it. An alert condition defines a set of thresholds you want to monitor. If any of those thresholds are breached, an alert event is created. Meaningful title templates help you pinpoint issues and resolve outages faster.

<img
  title="alert details page"
  alt="A screenshot depicting the final step of creating an alert condition- the alert details page"
  src="/images/alerts_screenshot-crop_adding-alert-details-to-an-alert-condition.webp"
/>

<figcaption>
  Go to  <DNT>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**</DNT> > <DNT> **Alerts** </DNT> > <DNT> **Alert Conditions**</DNT> and select a pre-existing alert condition or create a new alert condition to use the title template to easily identify related alert events.
</figcaption>

## Before you begin [#begin]

Here are some key things to note before you use our title template:

* **Compatibility**: The title template feature is available for NRQL conditions only.
* **Character limit**: The maximum length for a title template is 256 characters.
* **Formatting**: The title template must follow a valid [Handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/guide/) format.
* **Lost signal alert events**: For alert events triggered by a lost signal, the default title will always be used. To learn more about signal loss, see [Loss of signal and gap filling](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/nerdgraph-api-loss-signal-gap-filling/).

## Understand the title template [#example]

Let's say you run an e-commerce site and you have created an alert condition to trigger an alert event when networks errors are high. You can use a title template to make alert events from this condition easily identifiable.

You have named this alert condition `High Network Errors`. But you want the alert event title to reflect more information about the entity and priority.

**Example**:

```handlebars
{{conditionName}} Affecting {{entity.name}} - {{entity.type}} - {{priority}}
```

This template would generate the following alert event title:

```
High Network Errors Affecting Entity123 - Kubernetes Pod - Critical
```

## Use the title template [#use-titles]

You can interact with the title template in two ways: through the UI or using GraphQL.  Follow these steps to learn how.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="template-ui"
    title="Create a title template in the UI"
  >
    1. Navigate to the NRQL condition builder. For instructions, see [Alert conditions](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/alert-conditions/).
    2. Create your NRQL condition.
    3. In the final step, **Add details**, enter your title template in the **Title template** field.
    4. Save the condition.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="template-ui"
    title="Create a title template in the GraphQL"
  >
    In GraphQL, the title template field is called `titleTemplate`. Here's an example mutation to update a NRQL static condition to add a title template:

    ```graphql
    mutation {
      alertsNrqlConditionStaticUpdate(
        accountId: 123456
        id: 456789
        condition: {titleTemplate: "{{conditionName}} has triggered an alert event"}
      ) {
        titleTemplate
      }
    }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Use attributes to further define your condition [#attributes]

You can include a subset of alert event attributes in your title templates to add more context.

Here's how:

* **Use the format `{{AN_ATTRIBUTE}}`**. For example:

  ```handlebars
  {{conditionName}} has triggered an alert event
  ```
* **Tag attributes**: For tags, use the format `{{tags.TAG_NAME}}`.
* **Facet clause tags**: If a NRQL condition uses a `FACET` clause, you can use `tags` formatting to use those values in your title template. For example, if the NRQL query included `FACET hostName, cluster`, you could then use this:

  ```handlebars
  Host {{tags.hostName}}, cluster {{tags.cluster}} incident
  ```

Tag names cannot contain spaces, but the expanded values can. For a full list of available attributes, see [Incident event attributes](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/advanced-alerts/understand-technical-concepts/incident-event-attributes).
