src/content/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/get-started-full-stack-observability.mdx, before:

---
title: Get started with New Relic observability
tags:
  - Observe everything
  - Get started
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: New Relic helps you achieve true observability across your digital estate. See all the possibilities.
redirects:
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/observe-everything/get-started/get-started-full-stack-observability
  - /docs/introduction-full-stack-observability
  - /docs/get-started-full-stack-observability-0
  - /docs/get-started-full-stack-observability
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/monitor-everything
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/monitor-everything/get-started-new-relic-monitoring-tools/get-started-full-stack-observability
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/observe-everything/get-started-new-relic-observability/get-started-full-stack-observability
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/monitor-everything/observability-solutions
  - /docs/full-stack-observability
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/instrument-everything
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/observe-everything/get-started
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/observe-everything
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/instrument-everything/get-started-new-relic-instrumentation/introduction-new-relic-integrations
  - /node/39691
  - /docs/integrations/intro-integrations/get-started/introduction-new-relic-integrations
  - /docs/platform/platform-terminology
  - /docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations
  - /docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-new-relic-integrations
---

True observability is the power of knowing what's happening across your digital system and why it's happening—at any time, whatever solution you’re using. It’s getting the whole picture of everything that enables your applications and devices to deliver value to your customers, from the container running a microservice in the cloud to a mobile website's shopping cart button. 

Our platform goes beyond simple monitoring by offering you observability: data insights to help you make proactive and predictive improvements to your environment.

![Observability](./images/observability-2.png "Observability")

<figcaption>
  A comparison between simple monitoring and observability.
</figcaption>

## Get your data into New Relic [#integrations]

We provide [hundreds of tools](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability/) to get your data into New Relic so you can analyze everything in one place. Our solutions give you a steady flow of useful data to help you fix problems quickly, maintain complex systems, improve your code, and accelerate your digital transformation.

Whatever data you need to report and analyze, chances are that we have [solutions for you](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability). But if you have a situation we don't offer a pre-built solution for, we have [powerful options for building your own solutions](/docs/data-apis/custom-data/intro-custom-data).

## All the answers in one place [#answers]

Once your data is in [New Relic](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-new-relic), we give you a UI with tools to cut through the layers of complexity surrounding your systems. This is all in one platform so you don't need to switch between diagnostic applications.

You can interrogate your data for patterns, discover them using our [data platform](/docs/data-ingest-apis/get-data-new-relic/getting-started/get-started-telemetry-data-platform), or get proactive results from our [machine learning tools](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/new-relic-ai/introduction-new-relic-ai).

As a [full user](/docs/users-roles#user-type) you get access to our entire set of observability tools. All our tools are interconnected and accessible in [New Relic One](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/get-started/introduction-new-relic-one).

All the data you bring to New Relic through agents and integrations are [metrics, events, logs, and traces](https://newrelic.com/platform/telemetry-data-101/) that feed our platform's analytics and monitoring capabilities. New Relic links your data in a meaningful way so that you can [explore it](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/data-explorer/introduction-data-explorer), [build dashboards](/docs/dashboards/new-relic-one-dashboards/get-started/introduction-new-relic-one-dashboards), and [set up alerts](/docs/alerts).

Our out-of-the-box observability UI experiences allow to visualize, analyze, and troubleshoot your entire software stack in one unified platform. The [New Relic Explorer](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/entity-explorer-view-performance-across-apps-services-hosts) consolidates all the entities in your system, and how they're connected, in a single place, so you can easily detect performance trends and issues. By automatically connecting infrastructure health with application performance and end-user behavior, you can cut through the noise to find useful signals.

## Troubleshoot from anywhere in your stack [#start-anywhere]

Being fully-connected, the New Relic UI allows you to start your observability journey from any element of your stack. For example, you can get to crucial infrastructure logs from traces of an application running on a problematic Kubernetes pod.

Use the [Explorer](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-explorer-view-performance-across-apps-services-hosts/) in [New Relic One](https://one.newrelic.com/) to access and observe the full stack of your software, see performance data and alerting status at a glance, and check relationships. We provide you with a simple, yet powerful visual tool to monitor all your [entities](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/what-entity-new-relic/), that is, anything we can identify that reports data. In the New Relic ecosystem, entities include basic components like applications, hosts, containers, or database services, but it can also refer to custom groupings of such elements. You can also [create your own entities](https://github.com/newrelic/entity-definitions#entity-definitions). The more entities you instrument, the more data you'll bring in. The more data you've brought to New Relic, the more you'll understand your metrics, events, logs, and traces.

Here are some examples of UI paths you might follow to drill into your data:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        You want to instrument...
      </th>

      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        Start with
      </th>

      <th style={{ width: "275px" }}>
        Keep exploring
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        * Front-end applications
        * Mobile applications
        * User behavior and flows
      </td>

      <td>
        * [New Relic Explorer](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/entity-explorer-view-performance-across-apps-services-hosts)
        * [Browser monitoring](/docs/browser)
        * [Mobile monitoring](/docs/mobile-monitoring)
        * [Synthetic monitoring](/docs/synthetics)
      </td>

      <td>
        * [Single page monitoring](/docs/browser/single-page-app-monitoring/get-started/introduction-single-page-app-monitoring)
        * [Scripted browsers](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-scripted-browsers)
        * [Containerized minions](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/private-locations/install-containerized-private-minions-cpms)
        * [Workloads](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/workloads/workloads-isolate-resolve-incidents-faster)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        * Backend applications
        * Serverless applications
      </td>

      <td>
        * [New Relic Explorer](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/entity-explorer-view-performance-across-apps-services-hosts)
        * [Application monitoring](/docs/apm)
        * [Serverless monitoring](/docs/serverless-function-monitoring)
        * [Learning about Apdex](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/apdex/apdex-measure-user-satisfaction)
      </td>

      <td>
        * [Distributed tracing](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/get-started/introduction-distributed-tracing)
        * [Logs in context](/docs/logs/enable-logs/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents)
        * [APM data to infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/data-instrumentation/new-relic-apm-data-infrastructure)
        * [Workloads](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/workloads/workloads-isolate-resolve-incidents-faster)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        * Infrastructure hosts and services (on-premise, cloud, orchestrated)
        * Container environments and orchestration tools (Kubernetes, ECS, etc.)
      </td>

      <td>
        * [Infrastructure monitoring](/docs/infrastructure)
        * [Infrastructure integrations](/docs/integrations/infrastructure-integrations/get-started/introduction-infrastructure-integrations)
        * [Kubernetes integration](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/get-started/introduction-kubernetes-integration)
        * [Docker integration](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure/docker-installation/docker-instrumentation-infrastructure)
        * [ECS integration](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/monitor-services-running-amazon-ecs)
      </td>

      <td>
        * [Log forwarding](/docs/logs/enable-new-relic-logs/1-enable-logs/forward-your-logs-using-new-relic-infrastructure)
        * [APM data to infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/data-instrumentation/new-relic-apm-data-infrastructure)
        * [Custom integrations](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/flex-integration-tool-build-your-own-integration)
        * [Kubernetes cluster explorer](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/cluster-explorer/kubernetes-cluster-explorer)
        * [Infrastructure alerts](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/infrastructure-alert-conditions/infrastructure-alerts-add-edit-or-view-host-alert-information)
        * [Workloads](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/workloads/workloads-isolate-resolve-incidents-faster)
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

fix(pricing): changing 'full user' wording

src/content/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/get-started-full-stack-observability.mdx, after:

---
title: Get started with New Relic observability
tags:
  - Observe everything
  - Get started
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: New Relic helps you achieve true observability across your digital estate. See all the possibilities.
redirects:
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/observe-everything/get-started/get-started-full-stack-observability
  - /docs/introduction-full-stack-observability
  - /docs/get-started-full-stack-observability-0
  - /docs/get-started-full-stack-observability
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/monitor-everything
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/monitor-everything/get-started-new-relic-monitoring-tools/get-started-full-stack-observability
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/observe-everything/get-started-new-relic-observability/get-started-full-stack-observability
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/monitor-everything/observability-solutions
  - /docs/full-stack-observability
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/instrument-everything
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/observe-everything/get-started
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/observe-everything
  - /docs/full-stack-observability/instrument-everything/get-started-new-relic-instrumentation/introduction-new-relic-integrations
  - /node/39691
  - /docs/integrations/intro-integrations/get-started/introduction-new-relic-integrations
  - /docs/platform/platform-terminology
  - /docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations
  - /docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-new-relic-integrations
---

True observability is the power of knowing what's happening across your digital system and why it's happening—at any time, whatever solution you’re using. It’s getting the whole picture of everything that enables your applications and devices to deliver value to your customers, from the container running a microservice in the cloud to a mobile website's shopping cart button. 

Our platform goes beyond simple monitoring by offering you observability: data insights to help you make proactive and predictive improvements to your environment.

![Observability](./images/observability-2.png "Observability")

<figcaption>
  A comparison between simple monitoring and observability.
</figcaption>

## Get your data into New Relic [#integrations]

We provide [hundreds of tools](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability/) to get your data into New Relic so you can analyze everything in one place. Our solutions give you a steady flow of useful data to help you fix problems quickly, maintain complex systems, improve your code, and accelerate your digital transformation.

Whatever data you need to report and analyze, chances are that we have [solutions for you](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability). But if you have a situation we don't offer a pre-built solution for, we have [powerful options for building your own solutions](/docs/data-apis/custom-data/intro-custom-data).

## All the answers in one place [#answers]

Once your data is in [New Relic](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-new-relic), we give you a UI with tools to cut through the layers of complexity surrounding your systems. This is all in one platform so you don't need to switch between diagnostic applications.

You can interrogate your data for patterns, discover them using our [data platform](/docs/data-ingest-apis/get-data-new-relic/getting-started/get-started-telemetry-data-platform), or get proactive results from our [machine learning tools](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/new-relic-ai/introduction-new-relic-ai).

All our observability tools are interconnected and accessible in [New Relic One](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/get-started/introduction-new-relic-one).

Data reported to New Relic can be categorized as [metrics, events, logs, and traces](https://newrelic.com/platform/telemetry-data-101/). This data feeds our platform's analytics and monitoring capabilities. New Relic links your data in a meaningful way so that you can [explore it](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/data-explorer/introduction-data-explorer), [build dashboards](/docs/dashboards/new-relic-one-dashboards/get-started/introduction-new-relic-one-dashboards), and [set up alerts](/docs/alerts).

Our out-of-the-box observability UI experiences allow to visualize, analyze, and troubleshoot your entire software stack in one unified platform. The [New Relic Explorer](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/entity-explorer-view-performance-across-apps-services-hosts) consolidates all the entities in your system, and how they're connected, in a single place, so you can easily detect performance trends and issues. By automatically connecting infrastructure health with application performance and end-user behavior, you can cut through the noise to find useful signals.

## Troubleshoot from anywhere in your stack [#start-anywhere]

Being fully-connected, the New Relic UI allows you to start your observability journey from any element of your stack. For example, you can get to crucial infrastructure logs from traces of an application running on a problematic Kubernetes pod.

Use the [Explorer](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/new-relic-explorer-view-performance-across-apps-services-hosts/) in [New Relic One](https://one.newrelic.com/) to access and observe the full stack of your software, see performance data and alerting status at a glance, and check relationships. We provide you with a simple, yet powerful visual tool to monitor all your [entities](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/what-entity-new-relic/), that is, anything we can identify that reports data. In the New Relic ecosystem, entities include basic components like applications, hosts, containers, or database services, but it can also refer to custom groupings of such elements. You can also [create your own entities](https://github.com/newrelic/entity-definitions#entity-definitions). The more entities you instrument, the more data you'll bring in. The more data you've brought to New Relic, the more you'll understand your metrics, events, logs, and traces.

Here are some examples of UI paths you might follow to drill into your data:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        You want to instrument...
      </th>

      <th style={{ width: "250px" }}>
        Start with
      </th>

      <th style={{ width: "275px" }}>
        Keep exploring
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        * Front-end applications
        * Mobile applications
        * User behavior and flows
      </td>

      <td>
        * [New Relic Explorer](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/entity-explorer-view-performance-across-apps-services-hosts)
        * [Browser monitoring](/docs/browser)
        * [Mobile monitoring](/docs/mobile-monitoring)
        * [Synthetic monitoring](/docs/synthetics)
      </td>

      <td>
        * [Single page monitoring](/docs/browser/single-page-app-monitoring/get-started/introduction-single-page-app-monitoring)
        * [Scripted browsers](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/scripting-monitors/write-scripted-browsers)
        * [Containerized minions](/docs/synthetics/new-relic-synthetics/private-locations/install-containerized-private-minions-cpms)
        * [Workloads](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/workloads/workloads-isolate-resolve-incidents-faster)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        * Backend applications
        * Serverless applications
      </td>

      <td>
        * [New Relic Explorer](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/entity-explorer-view-performance-across-apps-services-hosts)
        * [Application monitoring](/docs/apm)
        * [Serverless monitoring](/docs/serverless-function-monitoring)
        * [Learning about Apdex](/docs/apm/new-relic-apm/apdex/apdex-measure-user-satisfaction)
      </td>

      <td>
        * [Distributed tracing](/docs/understand-dependencies/distributed-tracing/get-started/introduction-distributed-tracing)
        * [Logs in context](/docs/logs/enable-logs/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents)
        * [APM data to infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/data-instrumentation/new-relic-apm-data-infrastructure)
        * [Workloads](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/workloads/workloads-isolate-resolve-incidents-faster)
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        * Infrastructure hosts and services (on-premise, cloud, orchestrated)
        * Container environments and orchestration tools (Kubernetes, ECS, etc.)
      </td>

      <td>
        * [Infrastructure monitoring](/docs/infrastructure)
        * [Infrastructure integrations](/docs/integrations/infrastructure-integrations/get-started/introduction-infrastructure-integrations)
        * [Kubernetes integration](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/get-started/introduction-kubernetes-integration)
        * [Docker integration](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure/docker-installation/docker-instrumentation-infrastructure)
        * [ECS integration](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/monitor-services-running-amazon-ecs)
      </td>

      <td>
        * [Log forwarding](/docs/logs/enable-new-relic-logs/1-enable-logs/forward-your-logs-using-new-relic-infrastructure)
        * [APM data to infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/data-instrumentation/new-relic-apm-data-infrastructure)
        * [Custom integrations](/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/flex-integration-tool-build-your-own-integration)
        * [Kubernetes cluster explorer](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/cluster-explorer/kubernetes-cluster-explorer)
        * [Infrastructure alerts](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/infrastructure-alert-conditions/infrastructure-alerts-add-edit-or-view-host-alert-information)
        * [Workloads](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/workloads/workloads-isolate-resolve-incidents-faster)
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
