src/content/docs/alerts/alert-event-management/postmortems-applied-intelligence.mdx, before:

---
title: "Create postmortems with alerts"
metaDescription: "New Relic postmortems help you build quick and accurate postmortems by collecting events, metrics, and metadata automatically."
freshnessValidatedDate: never
redirects:
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/applied-intelligence/postmortems-applied-intelligence
---

<Callout title="preview">
  We're still working on this feature, but we'd love for you to try it out!

  This feature is currently provided as part of a preview program pursuant to our [pre-release policies](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/new-relic-pre-release-policy).
</Callout>

With alerts' postmortems feature, events, metrics, and metadata are automatically collected to create a template you can use to run an incident postmortem for your team.

## What is a postmortem? [#postmortem]

As you probably know, a postmortem is a retrospective process that teams use to analyze what worked and what didn't when responding to and resolving an incident.

In the New Relic platform, the postmortem feature is a tool you can use to prepare a successful retrospective process for your team.

The postmortem includes:

* the record of an incident, including descriptions
* a timeline of the incident
* the incident's impact
* the incident's root causes
* mitigation measures taken by your team
* follow-up action items to prevent the incident from recurring in the future

For a peek at how to build a postmortem with alerts, watch this short video (3:03 minutes):

<Video
  type="wistia"
  id="b0jcdks8eb"
/>

## Why use our postmortem tool? [#why-postmortem]

Alerts postmortems automatically collect data related to an incident, freeing up your team to focus on analysis and action items for improved responses to future incidents.

Ready to get started? Make sure you have a [New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup). It's free, forever!

## Create a postmortem [#create-postmortem]

When an issue is closed, you can create a postmortem.

To find your issues, go to <DNT>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Alerts > Analyze**</DNT>, and click <DNT>**Issues & activity**</DNT>.

Issues are groups of incidents related to the same underlying problem. When a new incident is created, incident intelligence may open a new issue and evaluates other open issues for possible correlation.

Follow these steps to create a postmortem.

### Step 1: Enter postmortem page [#postmortem-page]

From the issue feed, select an open issue for your postmortem.

To see your closed issues, in the search field, click the filter button, then select the <DNT>**Closed**</DNT> issue state.

On the issue detail page, click <DNT>**Close**</DNT>, and then click <DNT>**Create postmortem**</DNT>.

### Step 2: Review, edit, and comment on timeline [#edit-event-timeline]

A postmortem collects the events and metadata throughout the lifespan of an issue and automatically creates an event timeline.

<img
  title="The postmortem timeline"
  alt="A screenshot of the postmortem timeline showing how events are grouped by time and date."
  src="/images/accounts_screenshot-full_postmortem-1.webp"
/>

<figcaption>
  Specific events can be collapsed or expanded to make it easier to focus on what's important to you.
</figcaption>

Each event type is labeled with a different color to help distinguish them. Tags help provide useful additional context.

The event types include anomaly incidents, incidents, deployments, and user activity.

Each event in an issue is framed in an event card. You can review the timeline of events, delete an event card, or add a user event.

### Step 3: (Optional) Add a user event [#add-user-event]

<Callout variant="tip">
  To add a note as a user event on the timeline, move your mouse below any card, you will see an "Insert card" option.
</Callout>

Click on "Insert card", enter contexts, and save.

<img
  title="postmortem-2.png"
  alt="Screenshot of New Relic Postmortem Timeline Insert User Card"
  src="/images/accounts_screenshot-crop_postmortem-2.webp"
/>


### Step 4: (Optional) Comment on an event [#comment-event]

For any event on the timeline, you can add comments.

<img
  title="Postmortem comments"
  alt="A screenshot of the postmortem comments field."
  src="/images/accounts_screenshot-crop_postmortem-4.webp"
/>

<figcaption>
  Use comments to collaborate with your colleagues or remind yourself of useful context later.
</figcaption>

### Step 5: Review an event's metadata [#review-metadata]

Postmortem metadata includes associated issues and entities. These are automatically added to the postmortem. You can delete any associated entity that isn't relevant to you.

The time frame of the incident is also included as metadata.

<img
  title="Postmortem metadata"
  alt="A screenshot of the postmortem page showing associated issues and entities, as well as the time frame."
  src="/images/accounts_screenshot-crop_postmortem-5.webp"
/>

At the top of the postmortem page, select the severity level of the incident. The severity is shown on the postmortem list page.

You can adjust the start and end time to reflect the actual time period of the incident, if it's different than what's captured automatically.

### Step 6: Fill out context sections [#context-sections]

<img
  title="Postmortem context fields"
  alt="A screenshot of the postmortem reporting free text fields"
  src="/images/accounts_screenshot-crop_postmortem-6.webp"
/>

For a postmortem, the title and <DNT>**What happened**</DNT> summary sections are required fields.

The metadata sections and events timeline give you essential context about what entities are affected, when, and how.

Optionally, you can fill out the <DNT>**Root cause**</DNT> and <DNT>**Recovery actions**</DNT> sections to create a more detailed retrospective record.

## View your postmortems [#view-postmortems]

Once you've created one or more postmortems, you can return to them later. Follow these steps for a list of your postmortems.

1. Go to <DNT>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Alerts > Analyze**</DNT>, and click <DNT>**Issues & activity**</DNT>.

2. Click the <DNT>**Postmortems**</DNT> tab.

   <img
     title="Postmortem list page"
     alt="A screenshot of the postmortem list page"
     src="/images/accounts_screenshot-full_postmortem-edit.webp"
   />

3. Select an individual postmortem to look at the detailed postmortem record.

If you decide you no longer need a postmortem, on the detailed postmortem record, click <DNT>**Delete postmortem**</DNT>.

Commit message:

Phase 2 - replace incident(s) with Alert event(s)

src/content/docs/alerts/alert-event-management/postmortems-applied-intelligence.mdx, after:

---
title: "Create postmortems with alerts"
metaDescription: "New Relic postmortems help you build quick and accurate postmortems by collecting events, metrics, and metadata automatically."
freshnessValidatedDate: never
redirects:
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/applied-intelligence/postmortems-applied-intelligence
---

<Callout title="preview">
  We're still working on this feature, but we'd love for you to try it out!

  This feature is currently provided as part of a preview program pursuant to our [pre-release policies](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/new-relic-pre-release-policy).
</Callout>

With alerts' postmortems feature, events, metrics, and metadata are automatically collected to create a template you can use to run an alert event postmortem for your team.

## What is a postmortem? [#postmortem]

As you probably know, a postmortem is a retrospective process that teams use to analyze what worked and what didn't when responding to and resolving an alert event.

In the New Relic platform, the postmortem feature is a tool you can use to prepare a successful retrospective process for your team.

The postmortem includes:

* the record of an alert event, including descriptions
* a timeline of the alert event
* the alert event's impact
* the alert event's root causes
* mitigation measures taken by your team
* follow-up action items to prevent the alert event from recurring in the future

For a peek at how to build a postmortem with alerts, watch this short video (3:03 minutes):

<Video
  type="wistia"
  id="b0jcdks8eb"
/>

## Why use our postmortem tool? [#why-postmortem]

Alerts postmortems automatically collect data related to an alert event, freeing up your team to focus on analysis and action items for improved responses to future alert events.

Ready to get started? Make sure you have a [New Relic account](https://newrelic.com/signup). It's free, forever!

## Create a postmortem [#create-postmortem]

When an issue is closed, you can create a postmortem.

To find your issues, go to <DNT>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Alerts > Analyze**</DNT>, and click <DNT>**Issues & activity**</DNT>.

Issues are groups of alert events related to the same underlying problem. When a new alert event is created, alert event intelligence may open a new issue and evaluates other open issues for possible correlation.

Follow these steps to create a postmortem.

### Step 1: Enter postmortem page [#postmortem-page]

From the issue feed, select an open issue for your postmortem.

To see your closed issues, in the search field, click the filter button, then select the <DNT>**Closed**</DNT> issue state.

On the issue detail page, click <DNT>**Close**</DNT>, and then click <DNT>**Create postmortem**</DNT>.

### Step 2: Review, edit, and comment on timeline [#edit-event-timeline]

A postmortem collects the events and metadata throughout the lifespan of an issue and automatically creates an event timeline.

<img
  title="The postmortem timeline"
  alt="A screenshot of the postmortem timeline showing how events are grouped by time and date."
  src="/images/accounts_screenshot-full_postmortem-1.webp"
/>

<figcaption>
  Specific events can be collapsed or expanded to make it easier to focus on what's important to you.
</figcaption>

Each event type is labeled with a different color to help distinguish them. Tags help provide useful additional context.

The event types include anomaly alert events, deployments, and user activity.

Each event in an issue is framed in an event card. You can review the timeline of events, delete an event card, or add a user event.

### Step 3: (Optional) Add a user event [#add-user-event]

<Callout variant="tip">
  To add a note as a user event on the timeline, move your mouse below any card, you will see an "Insert card" option.
</Callout>

Click on "Insert card", enter contexts, and save.

<img
  title="postmortem-2.png"
  alt="Screenshot of New Relic Postmortem Timeline Insert User Card"
  src="/images/accounts_screenshot-crop_postmortem-2.webp"
/>


### Step 4: (Optional) Comment on an event [#comment-event]

For any event on the timeline, you can add comments.

<img
  title="Postmortem comments"
  alt="A screenshot of the postmortem comments field."
  src="/images/accounts_screenshot-crop_postmortem-4.webp"
/>

<figcaption>
  Use comments to collaborate with your colleagues or remind yourself of useful context later.
</figcaption>

### Step 5: Review an event's metadata [#review-metadata]

Postmortem metadata includes associated issues and entities. These are automatically added to the postmortem. You can delete any associated entity that isn't relevant to you.

The time frame of the alert event is also included as metadata.

<img
  title="Postmortem metadata"
  alt="A screenshot of the postmortem page showing associated issues and entities, as well as the time frame."
  src="/images/accounts_screenshot-crop_postmortem-5.webp"
/>

At the top of the postmortem page, select the severity level of the alert event. The severity is shown on the postmortem list page.

You can adjust the start and end time to reflect the actual time period of the alert event, if it's different than what's captured automatically.

### Step 6: Fill out context sections [#context-sections]

<img
  title="Postmortem context fields"
  alt="A screenshot of the postmortem reporting free text fields"
  src="/images/accounts_screenshot-crop_postmortem-6.webp"
/>

For a postmortem, the title and <DNT>**What happened**</DNT> summary sections are required fields.

The metadata sections and events timeline give you essential context about what entities are affected, when, and how.

Optionally, you can fill out the <DNT>**Root cause**</DNT> and <DNT>**Recovery actions**</DNT> sections to create a more detailed retrospective record.

## View your postmortems [#view-postmortems]

Once you've created one or more postmortems, you can return to them later. Follow these steps for a list of your postmortems.

1. Go to <DNT>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Alerts > Analyze**</DNT>, and click <DNT>**Issues & activity**</DNT>.

2. Click the <DNT>**Postmortems**</DNT> tab.

   <img
     title="Postmortem list page"
     alt="A screenshot of the postmortem list page"
     src="/images/accounts_screenshot-full_postmortem-edit.webp"
   />

3. Select an individual postmortem to look at the detailed postmortem record.

If you decide you no longer need a postmortem, on the detailed postmortem record, click <DNT>**Delete postmortem**</DNT>.
