src/content/docs/logs/forward-logs/aws-lambda-sending-logs-s3.mdx, before:

---
title: AWS Lambda for sending logs from S3
tags:
  - Logs
  - Enable log management in New Relic
  - Enable log monitoring in New Relic
metaDescription: 'Install and configure the New Relic logging plugin for AWS Lambda with S3 logs, so you can use enhanced log management capabilities.'
redirects:
  - /docs/logs/enable-new-relic-logs/1-enable-logs/aws-lambda-sending-logs-s3
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/aws-lambda-sending-logs-s3
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/aws-lambda-sending-logs-s3
---

You can send your [Amazon CloudWatch logs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/WhatIsCloudWatchLogs.html) to New Relic using our AWS Lambda function, `NewRelic-log-ingestion-s3`. This can be easily deployed from the AWS Serverless application repository. 

Forwarding logs from your S3 bucket to New Relic will give you enhanced log management capabilities to collect, process, explore, query, and alert on your log data.

## Install the Lambda function [#install-function]

To install the S3 logs shipper Lambda function:

1. Make sure you have a [New Relic license key](/docs/accounts/install-new-relic/account-setup/license-key).
2. Open the [AWS Serverless Application Repository](https://serverlessrepo.aws.amazon.com/applications) in your browser.
3. Make sure that the Lambda is installed in the same region as the S3 bucket.
   ![AWS Lambda - Select region](./images/aws-lambdaselect-region.png "AWS Lambda - Select region")
4. Search for `newrelic` and check **Show apps that create custom IAM roles or resource policies** to find `NewRelic-log-ingestion-s3`.
5. Click the `NewRelic-log-ingestion-s3` details and click **Deploy**.
6. Scroll to the **Application settings** and enter your New Relic license key].
7. Take advantage of New Relic's log parsing capabilities by specifying the `logtype` as an environment variable for the Lambda function. For more information, see [Built-in parsing rulesets](/docs/logs/new-relic-logs/ui-data/new-relic-logs-parsing-built-rules-custom-parsing#built-in-rules).
8. Confirm that the app creates custom IAM roles, and then click **Deploy.**
9. Once the function is deployed, [create a Lambda trigger](#create-trigger).

### Manual install using Serverless Framework [#serverless-install]

You can manually install and configure the Lambda from the terminal using the [Serverless](https://www.npmjs.com/package/serverless) Framework. If you're not on Linux, install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) first and keep it running.

```
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/newrelic/aws_s3_log_ingestion_lambda.git
# Install <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/serverless">Serverless</a> and the repo dependencies
npm install -g serverless
npm install
# Set the New Relic License Key env variable
export LICENSE_KEY=<var>YOUR_NEWRELIC_LICENSE_KEY</var>
# Set the logtype (optional)
export LOGTYPE=<var>YOUR_LOGTYPE</var>
# Set the S3 bucket name
export S3_BUCKET_NAME=<var>YOUR_S3_BUCKET_NAME</var>
# The S3 subdirectory (optional)
export S3_PREFIX=<var>YOUR_S3_SUBDIRECTORY</var>
# Deploy the function
serverless deploy
```

## Create a Lambda trigger in AWS [#create-trigger]

To get your logs streaming to New Relic, attach a trigger to the Lambda:

1. In the left side menu, click **Functions**.
2. Find and select the previously created `NewRelic-s3-log-ingestion` function.
3. Under **Designer**, click **Add Triggers** and select **S3** from the dropdown.
4. Select the S3 bucket that contains the log you want to send to New Relic.
5. Optionally configure a [prefix and suffix](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/amazon-s3-adds-prefix-and-suffix-filters-for-lambda-function-triggering/). This is helpful if your logs are in a subdirectory.
6. Check the **Enable trigger** checkbox, then **Add** the trigger.

To test the Lambda function, upload a new log file to the S3 bucket you configured in the function settings and then [view your log data](#find-data).

## Limitations [#limitations]

* The maximum supported log file size is 35 MB uncompressed.
* The maximum supported individual log line size is 0.25 MB.
* Encrypted log files are not supported.

## View log data [#find-data]

If everything is configured correctly and your data is being collected, you should see data logs in both of these places:

* [New Relic Logs UI](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/logger.log-launcher)
* New Relic tools for running [NRQL queries](/docs/chart-builder/use-chart-builder/choose-data/use-advanced-nrql-mode-specify-data). For example, you can execute a query like this:

```
SELECT * FROM Log
```

## Troubleshooting {#troubleshooting}

If you encounter problems with configuring your log forwarder, try these troubleshooting tips.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="config-overlap"
    title="Configuration overlap"
  >
    When deploying the Lambda function, this error may occur:

    ```
    An error occurred when creating the trigger: Configurations overlap. Configurations on the same bucket cannot share a common event type.
    ```

    To solve this issue, make sure the bucket doesn't have another event of the same type. Your S3 bucket can't have multiple instances of **All object create events**.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="cannot-connect"
    title="Cannot connect to the Docker daemon"
  >
    When using Serverless to deploy the Lambda function from your machine, this error may occur:

    ```
    Error: docker: Cannot connect to the Docker daemon at unix:///var/run/docker.sock. Is the docker daemon running?
    ```

    This may mean that either Docker isn't running or that it hasn't been correctly set up. Make sure Docker is running on your machine when deploying the Lambda function using Serverless.
  </Collapser>
  
  <Collapser
    id="no-data"
    title="No data appears"
  >
    If no data appears after you enable log management, follow the [troubleshooting procedures](/docs/logs/log-management/troubleshooting/no-log-data-appears-ui/).
  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

## What's next? [#what-next]

Explore logging data across your platform with the [New Relic One UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/).

* Get deeper visibility into both your application and your platform performance data by forwarding your logs with our [logs in context](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents/) capabilities.
* Set up [alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-alert-conditions/).
* [Query your data](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/) and [create dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/).

Commit message:

fix(Logs): Log forwarders
Now Lambda S3 doesn't want to build in localhost

src/content/docs/logs/forward-logs/aws-lambda-sending-logs-s3.mdx, after:

---
title: AWS Lambda for sending logs from S3
tags:
  - Logs
  - Enable log management in New Relic
  - Enable log monitoring in New Relic
metaDescription: 'Install and configure the New Relic logging plugin for AWS Lambda with S3, so you can use enhanced log management capabilities.'
redirects:
  - /docs/logs/enable-new-relic-logs/1-enable-logs/aws-lambda-sending-logs-s3
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/aws-lambda-sending-logs-s3
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/aws-lambda-sending-logs-s3
---

You can send your [Amazon S3 buckets](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) to New Relic using our AWS Lambda function, `NewRelic-log-ingestion-s3`. This can be easily deployed from the AWS Serverless application repository. 

Forwarding logs from your S3 bucket to New Relic will give you enhanced log management capabilities to collect, process, explore, query, and alert on your log data.

## Install the Lambda function [#install-function]

To install the S3 logs shipper Lambda function:

1. Make sure you have a [New Relic license key](/docs/accounts/install-new-relic/account-setup/license-key).
2. Open the [AWS Serverless Application Repository](https://serverlessrepo.aws.amazon.com/applications) in your browser.
3. Make sure that the Lambda is installed in the same region as the S3 bucket.
  ![AWS Lambda - Select region](./images/aws-lambdaselect-region.png "AWS Lambda - Select region")
4. Search for `newrelic` and check **Show apps that create custom IAM roles or resource policies** to find `NewRelic-log-ingestion-s3`.
5. Click the `NewRelic-log-ingestion-s3` details and click **Deploy**.
6. Scroll to the **Application settings** and enter your New Relic license key].
7. Take advantage of New Relic's log parsing capabilities by specifying the `logtype` as an environment variable for the Lambda function. For more information, see [Built-in parsing rulesets](/docs/logs/new-relic-logs/ui-data/new-relic-logs-parsing-built-rules-custom-parsing#built-in-rules).
8. Confirm that the app creates custom IAM roles, and then click **Deploy.**
9. Once the function is deployed, [create a Lambda trigger](#create-trigger).

### Manual install using Serverless Framework [#serverless-install]

You can manually install and configure the Lambda from the terminal using the [Serverless](https://www.npmjs.com/package/serverless) Framework. If you're not on Linux, install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) first and keep it running.

```
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/newrelic/aws_s3_log_ingestion_lambda.git
# Install <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/serverless">Serverless</a> and the repo dependencies
npm install -g serverless
npm install
# Set the New Relic License Key env variable
export LICENSE_KEY=<var>YOUR_NEWRELIC_LICENSE_KEY</var>
# Set the logtype (optional)
export LOGTYPE=<var>YOUR_LOGTYPE</var>
# Set the S3 bucket name
export S3_BUCKET_NAME=<var>YOUR_S3_BUCKET_NAME</var>
# The S3 subdirectory (optional)
export S3_PREFIX=<var>YOUR_S3_SUBDIRECTORY</var>
# Deploy the function
serverless deploy
```

## Create a Lambda trigger in AWS [#create-trigger]

To get your logs streaming to New Relic, attach a trigger to the Lambda:

1. In the left side menu, click **Functions**.
2. Find and select the previously created `NewRelic-s3-log-ingestion` function.
3. Under **Designer**, click **Add Triggers** and select **S3** from the dropdown.
4. Select the S3 bucket that contains the log you want to send to New Relic.
5. Optionally configure a [prefix and suffix](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/amazon-s3-adds-prefix-and-suffix-filters-for-lambda-function-triggering/). This is helpful if your logs are in a subdirectory.
6. Check the **Enable trigger** checkbox, then **Add** the trigger.

To test the Lambda function, upload a new log file to the S3 bucket you configured in the function settings and then [view your log data](#find-data).

## Limitations [#limitations]

* The maximum supported log file size is 35 MB uncompressed.
* The maximum supported individual log line size is 0.25 MB.
* Encrypted log files are not supported.

## View log data [#find-data]

If everything is configured correctly and your data is being collected, you should see data logs in both of these places:

* [New Relic Logs UI](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/logger.log-launcher)
* New Relic tools for running [NRQL queries](/docs/chart-builder/use-chart-builder/choose-data/use-advanced-nrql-mode-specify-data).

For example, you can execute a query like this:

```
SELECT * FROM Log
```

## Troubleshooting {#troubleshooting}

If you encounter problems with configuring your log forwarder, try these troubleshooting tips.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="config-overlap"
    title="Configuration overlap"
  >

  When deploying the Lambda function, this error may occur:

  ```
  An error occurred when creating the trigger: Configurations overlap. Configurations on the same bucket cannot share a common event type.
  ```

  To solve this issue, make sure the bucket doesn't have another event of the same type. Your S3 bucket can't have multiple instances of **All object create events**.

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="cannot-connect"
    title="Cannot connect to the Docker daemon"
  >

  When using Serverless to deploy the Lambda function from your machine, this error may occur:

  ```
  Error: docker: Cannot connect to the Docker daemon at unix:///var/run/docker.sock. Is the docker daemon running?
  ```

  This may mean that either Docker isn't running or that it hasn't been correctly set up. Make sure Docker is running on your machine when deploying the Lambda function using Serverless.

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="no-data"
    title="No data appears"
  >

  If no data appears after you enable log management, follow the [troubleshooting procedures](/docs/logs/log-management/troubleshooting/no-log-data-appears-ui/).

  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## What's next? [#what-next]

Explore logging data across your platform with the [New Relic One UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/).

* Get deeper visibility into both your application and your platform performance data by forwarding your logs with our [logs in context](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents/) capabilities.
* Set up [alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-alert-conditions/).
* [Query your data](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/) and [create dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/).
