src/content/docs/logs/forward-logs/stream-logs-using-kinesis-data-firehose.mdx, before:

---
title: Stream logs using Kinesis Data Firehose
tags:
  - Logs
  - Enable log management in New Relic
  - Enable log monitoring in New Relic
metaDescription: 'Install and configure New Relic logging for Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose, so you can use our enhanced log management capabilities.'
redirects:
  - /docs/logs/enable-new-relic-logs/1-enable-logs/amazon-kinesis-data-firehose
  - /docs/logs/enable-new-relic-logs/1-enable-logs/stream-logs-new-relic-using-amazon-kinesis-data-firehose
  - /docs/logs/enable-new-relic-logs/1-enable-logs/stream-logs-new-relic-using-kinesis-data-firehose
  - /docs/logs/enable-new-relic-logs/1-enable-logs/stream-logs-using-kinesis-data-firehose
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/stream-logs-using-kinesis-data-firehose
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/stream-logs-using-kinesis-data-firehose
---

If your log data is already being monitored by [Amazon CloudWatch Logs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/WhatIsCloudWatchLogs.html), you can use our Kinesis Data Firehose integration to forward and enrich your log data in New Relic. Kinesis Data Firehose is a service that can stream data in real time to a variety of destinations, including our platform.

Forwarding your CloudWatch Logs or other logs compatible with a Kinesis stream to New Relic will give you enhanced log management capabilities to collect, process, explore, query, and alert on your log data.

## Create the delivery stream for New Relic [#create-delivery-stream]

To forward your logs from Kinesis Data Firehose to New Relic:

1. Make sure you have a [New Relic license key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key).
2. Follow the procedures to [create an Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose delivery stream](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/basic-create.html), and select New Relic as the destination: In the AWS Management Console, go to **Amazon Kinesis**.
3. Select **Kinesis Data Firehose** and click **Create delivery stream**.
4. Enter a name for the stream and select your data source.
5. When selecting the destination, click **Third-party partner** and then **New Relic.**

  ![Third-party partner - AWS Kinesis Firehose](./images/3rd-party-firehose.png "Third-party partner - AWS Kinesis Firehose")

6. Under **HTTP endpoint URL**, select **New Relic logs - US** from the dropdown.

  **Note**: To send your logs to the EU, complete the remaining steps in this section, then proceed to the [configuration procedures for EU accounts](#configure-eu-stream).

7. Paste your [license key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key) in the **API key** field.
8. Configure and review the remaining settings.

## Configure your stream to send logs to EU accounts [#configure-eu-stream]

If you have a New Relic account in our EU data center:

1. Follow standard procedures to [create your delivery stream](#create-delivery-stream).
2. Once your stream has been created, navigate to the [Amazon Kinesis Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/kinesis/), and click **Delivery streams**.
3. Click the name of your newly created delivery stream, and select the **Configuration** tab.
4. Next to the **Destination settings** section, click **Edit**.
5. Update the value for **HTTP endpoint URL** to our Firehose endpoint for EU accounts:

  ```
  https://aws-api.eu.newrelic.com/firehose/v1
  ```

6. Click **Save changes** to ensure your stream is updated.

## View log data [#find-data]

If everything is configured correctly and your data is being collected, you should see data logs in both of these places:

* [New Relic Logs UI](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/logger.log-launcher)
* New Relic tools for running [NRQL queries](/docs/chart-builder/use-chart-builder/choose-data/use-advanced-nrql-mode-specify-data). For example, you can execute a query like this:

```
SELECT * FROM Log
```

If no data appears after you enable our log management capabilities, follow our [standard log troubleshooting procedures](/docs/logs/log-management/troubleshooting/no-log-data-appears-ui/).

## What's next? [#what-next]

Explore logging data across your platform with the [New Relic One UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/).

* Get deeper visibility into both your application and your platform performance data by forwarding your logs with our [logs in context](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents/) capabilities.
* Set up [alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-alert-conditions/).
* [Query your data](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/) and [create dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/).

Commit message:

fix(Logs Kinesis Firehose): CF-10272
Add clarification that optional metadata settings in AWS = attribute/values in New Relic

src/content/docs/logs/forward-logs/stream-logs-using-kinesis-data-firehose.mdx, after:

---
title: Stream logs using Kinesis Data Firehose
tags:
  - Logs
  - Enable log management in New Relic
  - Enable log monitoring in New Relic
metaDescription: 'Install and configure New Relic logging for Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose, so you can use our enhanced log management capabilities.'
redirects:
  - /docs/logs/enable-new-relic-logs/1-enable-logs/amazon-kinesis-data-firehose
  - /docs/logs/enable-new-relic-logs/1-enable-logs/stream-logs-new-relic-using-amazon-kinesis-data-firehose
  - /docs/logs/enable-new-relic-logs/1-enable-logs/stream-logs-new-relic-using-kinesis-data-firehose
  - /docs/logs/enable-new-relic-logs/1-enable-logs/stream-logs-using-kinesis-data-firehose
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/stream-logs-using-kinesis-data-firehose
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/stream-logs-using-kinesis-data-firehose
---

If your log data is already being monitored by [Amazon CloudWatch Logs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/WhatIsCloudWatchLogs.html), you can use our Kinesis Data Firehose integration to forward and enrich your log data in New Relic. Kinesis Data Firehose is a service that can stream data in real time to a variety of destinations, including our platform.

Forwarding your CloudWatch Logs or other logs compatible with a Kinesis stream to New Relic will give you enhanced log management capabilities to collect, process, explore, query, and alert on your log data.

## Create the delivery stream for New Relic [#create-delivery-stream]

To forward your logs from Kinesis Data Firehose to New Relic:

1. Make sure you have a [New Relic license key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key).
2. Follow the procedures to [create an Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose delivery stream](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/basic-create.html), and select New Relic as the destination: In the AWS Management Console, go to **Amazon Kinesis**.
3. Select **Kinesis Data Firehose** and click **Create delivery stream**.
4. Enter a name for the stream and select your data source.
5. When selecting the destination, click **Third-party partner** and then **New Relic.**

  ![Third-party partner - AWS Kinesis Firehose](./images/3rd-party-firehose.png "Third-party partner - AWS Kinesis Firehose")

6. Under **HTTP endpoint URL**, select **New Relic logs - US** from the dropdown.

  **Note**: To send your logs to the EU, complete the remaining steps in this section, then proceed to the [configuration procedures for EU accounts](#configure-eu-stream).

7. Paste your [license key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key) in the **API key** field.
8. Configure and review the remaining metadata settings.

Any optional key/value pairs you add in the AWS Management Console will result in attribute/value pairs you can use in New Relic.

## Configure your stream to send logs to EU accounts [#configure-eu-stream]

If you have a New Relic account in our EU data center:

1. Follow standard procedures to [create your delivery stream](#create-delivery-stream).
2. Once your stream has been created, navigate to the [Amazon Kinesis Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/kinesis/), and click **Delivery streams**.
3. Click the name of your newly created delivery stream, and select the **Configuration** tab.
4. Next to the **Destination settings** section, click **Edit**.
5. Update the value for **HTTP endpoint URL** to our Firehose endpoint for EU accounts:

  ```
  https://aws-api.eu.newrelic.com/firehose/v1
  ```

6. Click **Save changes** to ensure your stream is updated.

## View log data [#find-data]

If everything is configured correctly and your data is being collected, you should see data logs in both of these places:

* [New Relic Logs UI](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/logger.log-launcher)
* New Relic tools for running [NRQL queries](/docs/chart-builder/use-chart-builder/choose-data/use-advanced-nrql-mode-specify-data). For example, you can execute a query like this:

```
SELECT * FROM Log
```

If no data appears after you enable our log management capabilities, follow our [standard log troubleshooting procedures](/docs/logs/log-management/troubleshooting/no-log-data-appears-ui/).

## What's next? [#what-next]

Explore logging data across your platform with the [New Relic One UI](/docs/logs/log-management/ui-data/use-logs-ui/).

* Get deeper visibility into both your application and your platform performance data by forwarding your logs with our [logs in context](/docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/configure-logs-context/configure-logs-context-apm-agents/) capabilities.
* Set up [alerts](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-alert-conditions/).
* [Query your data](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/) and [create dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/).
