src/content/docs/codestream/codestream-settings/account-settings.mdx, before:

---
title: CodeStream account settings and profile pages
metaDescription: "An overview of CodeStream account settings and profile pages."
---

Look for the “Account” menu under the ellipses menu at the top of the CodeStream
pane and you’ll find options for viewing your own profile, and changing your
profile photo, username, full name and email address. 

![Account Settings](/images/AccountSettings2.png)

Note that when you change your email address, the old one will remain in effect
until you click on the link in the confirmation email sent to you.

If you would like to cancel your CodeStream account look for the option to do so
under Other Actions.

## Profile

If you click on a headshot from anywhere in CodeStream (e.g., activity feed, a
discussion thread, etc.) you'll be taken to the person's profile page.

![Profile Page](/images/ProfilePage3.png)

When viewing your own profile page, hover over entries for username, email
address, phone number, works on or the profile photo to see a pencil icon that
will allow you to make changes.

![Edit Profile](/images/EditProfile.png)

Commit message:

style(CodeStream): Copyedited settings section

src/content/docs/codestream/codestream-settings/account-settings.mdx, after:

---
title: CodeStream account settings and profile pages
metaDescription: "An overview of CodeStream account settings and profile pages."
---

New Relic CodeStream account settings let you make changes to your personal account.

## Account overview [#overview]

The **Account** menu is located under the ellipses menu at the top of the CodeStream
pane. The account menu includes options for viewing your profile and changing your
profile photo, username, full name, and email address. 

![Account Settings](/images/AccountSettings2.png)

When you change your email address, the old one will remain in effect
until you click the link in the confirmation email that's sent to you.

If you'd like to cancel your CodeStream account, find that option 
under **Other Actions**.

## Account profile [#profile]

If you click a headshot from anywhere in CodeStream (such as, the activity feed or a
discussion thread) you're taken to that person's profile page.

![Profile Page](/images/ProfilePage3.png)

When viewing your own profile page, hover over entries for username, email
address, phone number, works on, or the profile photo to see a pencil icon that enables you to make changes to those fields.

![Edit Profile](/images/EditProfile.png)
