src/content/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/monitoring/view-slow-query-details.mdx, before:

---
title: View slow query details
tags:
  - APM
  - APM UI pages
  - Monitoring
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'APM: How to view slow query data, and how to enable and configure slow query data collection.'
redirects:
  - /docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/viewing-slow-query-details
  - /docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/view-slow-query-details
---

In APM, when [transaction traces](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/introduction-transaction-traces) are collected, there may be additional **Slow query** data available on the [**Databases**](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/databases-slow-queries-page) page. Let's look at what slow query data is, where to find it, and how to configure it.

## Slow query data samples [#about]

When [transaction traces](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/introduction-transaction-traces) are reported, the slow queries feature samples the slowest database queries in those traces and reports data about them on the [**Databases**](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/databases-slow-queries-page) page. Slow query data can include:

* Duration of query segments
* Query/explain plans (if recognized)
* [Host and instance level details](/docs/apm/applications-menu/features/analyze-database-instance-level-performance-issues) (if supported by agent)

## View slow query data [#db_slowsql]

<Callout variant="tip">
  To get a high-level overview of all your applications and services, use the [New Relic Explorer](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/ui-data/new-relic-one-entity-explorer).
</Callout>

To see your slow query data:

1. Do one of the following:
   * New Relic Explorer: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Explorer > (select an app) > Monitor > Databases**.
   * APM: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > APM > (select an app) > Monitor > Databases**.
2. Select a database transaction.
3. If available, select any available [slow queries](#slowsql_details) listed on the page.

If you do not see expected slow query data, follow the [troubleshooting tips](#troubleshooting).

## Configuration [#settings]

In general, you can configure your slow query settings either of these ways:

* Agent configuration
* [Server-side configuration](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration) (if available for your agent)

Agent configuration gives you more options than server-side configuration does. How you choose to configure slow queries will depend on your own setup and preferences. For more information, see the documentation for the specific agent:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="c-sdk"
    title="C SDK"
  >
    You can report slow query traces for SQL databases only. For more information, see [Instrument your application with the C SDK](/docs/agents/c-sdk/instrumentation/instrument-your-app-c-sdk#slow-query-datastore).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="go"
    title="Go"
  >
    Agent configuration options:

    * Enable/disable: [`SlowQuery.Enabled`](/docs/agents/go-agent/configuration/go-agent-configuration#slow-query)
    * Slow query threshold: [`SlowQuery.Threshold`](/docs/agents/go-agent/configuration/go-agent-configuration#slow-query-threshold)
    * For other datastore config options, see [Datastore tracer configuration](/docs/agents/go-agent/configuration/go-agent-configuration#datastore-tracer).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="java"
    title="Java"
  >
    Agent configuration:

    * Slow query threshold: [`explain_threshold`](/docs/agents/java-agent/configuration/java-agent-configuration-config-file#tt-explain_threshold).
    * For other settings related to slow transactions and queries, see the [Transaction tracer config options](/docs/agents/java-agent/configuration/java-agent-configuration-config-file#h2-Transaction-tracer).

    You can also edit basic slow query settings via [server-side configuration](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration#customize-ssc).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="net"
    title=".NET"
  >
    Agent configuration:

    * Enable/disable: [`slowSql enabled`](/docs/agents/net-agent/configuration/net-agent-configuration#slow_sql)
    * Slow query threshold: [explainThreshold](/docs/agents/net-agent/configuration/net-agent-configuration#tracer-explainThreshold)
    * For other settings related to slow transactions and queries, see the [Transaction tracer config options](/docs/agents/net-agent/configuration/net-agent-configuration#transaction_tracer) and the [Datastore tracer options](/docs/agents/net-agent/configuration/net-agent-configuration#datastore_tracer).

    You can also edit basic slow query settings via [server-side configuration](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration#customize-ssc).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="node"
    title="Node.js"
  >
    Agent configuration:

    * Enable/disable: [`enabled`](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration#slow-sql-enabled)
    * Threshold: [`explain_threshold`](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration#explain_threshold)
    * Maximum slow query samples: [`max_samples`](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration#slow-sql-max-samples)
    * For other settings related to slow transactions and queries, see the [Transaction tracer config options](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration#tx_tracer_config).

    [Server-side configuration](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration) of slow query data is not possible for the Node.js agent.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="php"
    title="PHP"
  >
    Agent configuration:

    * Enable/disable: [`slow_sql`](/docs/agents/php-agent/configuration/php-agent-configuration#inivar-tt-slowsql)
    * Threshold: [`explain_threshold`](/docs/agents/php-agent/configuration/php-agent-configuration#inivar-tt-epthreshold)
    * For other settings related to slow transactions and queries, see the [Transaction tracer config options](/docs/agents/php-agent/configuration/php-agent-configuration#inivar-tt-settings).

    [Server-side configuration](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration) is not possible for the PHP agent.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="python"
    title="Python"
  >
    Agent configuration:

    * Slow query threshold: [`explain_threshold`](/docs/agents/python-agent/configuration/python-agent-configuration#txn-tracer-explain-threshold)
    * For other settings related to slow transactions and queries, see the [Transaction tracer config options](/docs/agents/python-agent/configuration/python-agent-configuration#txn-tracer-settings) and the [Datastore tracer options](/docs/agents/python-agent/configuration/python-agent-configuration#datastore-tracer-settings).

    You can also edit basic slow query settings via [server-side configuration](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration#customize-ssc).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="ruby"
    title="Ruby"
  >
    Agent configuration:

    * Enable/disable: [`slow_sql.enabled`](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/ruby-agent-configuration#slow_sql-enabled)
    * Slow query threshold: [`slow_sql.explain_threshold`](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/ruby-agent-configuration#slow_sql-explain_threshold)
    * For other settings related to slow transactions and queries, see the [Transaction tracer config options](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/ruby-agent-configuration#transaction_tracer) and the [Slow SQL config options](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/ruby-agent-configuration#slow_sql).

    If applicable for your application's agent language, you can also edit basic slow query settings by using [server-side configuration](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration#customize-ssc).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Slow queries metrics [#slowsql_details]

The slow queries list contains the following metrics:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th width={150}>
        **Metric**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Description**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `Response time`
      </td>

      <td>
        The average response time for the statements sampled.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `Sample count`
      </td>

      <td>
        The number of slow queries identified in the sample.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

To view additional details, select an individual slow query:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th width={150}>
        **Metric**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Description**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `Start time`
      </td>

      <td>
        When the stack trace began collecting the data shown.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `Max time`
      </td>

      <td>
        The maximum time for all similar query statements in the sample.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `Action`
      </td>

      <td>
        The action or process invoking the query.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `Query`
      </td>

      <td>
        The query that is being reported as slow. Depending on your configuration, some parts of the query may be obfuscated.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `Stack trace`
      </td>

      <td>
        Where in the code the statement was called.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

For MySQL, we provide a query analysis, which explains what happened in your query and what you might do to speed it up. Other databases display an explain plan whenever possible.

## Troubleshooting: No slow query data [#troubleshooting]

If you do not see slow query data, it may be for any of these reasons:

* The slow query feature has been disabled.
* The threshold is set to too high a duration and no slow queries are being reported.
* The query obfuscation setting (usually `record_sql` or similar) may be set to `Off`.

To solve the problem, try adjusting the [configuration options](#settings).

Commit message:

feat(NerdByte videos): More video links
For DOC-7575

src/content/docs/apm/apm-ui-pages/monitoring/view-slow-query-details.mdx, after:

---
title: View slow query details
tags:
  - APM
  - APM UI pages
  - Monitoring
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'APM: How to view slow query data, and how to enable and configure slow query data collection.'
redirects:
  - /docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/viewing-slow-query-details
  - /docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/view-slow-query-details
---

In APM, when [transaction traces](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/introduction-transaction-traces) are collected, there may be additional **Slow query** data available on the [**Databases**](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/databases-slow-queries-page) page. Let's look at what slow query data is, where to find it, and how to configure it.

You can also use histograms and heatmaps to visualize the distribution of values for different metrics. This is useful to understand slow page performance. To learn how, watch this short video (4:18 minutes).

<Video id="Gh4Km9aJoBE" type="youtube" />

## Slow query data samples [#about]

When [transaction traces](/docs/apm/transactions/transaction-traces/introduction-transaction-traces) are reported, the slow queries feature samples the slowest database queries in those traces and reports data about them on the [**Databases**](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/databases-slow-queries-page) page. Slow query data can include:

* Duration of query segments
* Query/explain plans (if recognized)
* [Host and instance level details](/docs/apm/applications-menu/features/analyze-database-instance-level-performance-issues) (if supported by agent)

## View slow query data [#db_slowsql]

<Callout variant="tip">
  To get a high-level overview of all your applications and services, use the [New Relic Explorer](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/ui-data/new-relic-one-entity-explorer).
</Callout>

To see your slow query data:

1. Do one of the following:
   * New Relic Explorer: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Explorer > (select an app) > Monitor > Databases**.
   * APM: Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > APM > (select an app) > Monitor > Databases**.
2. Select a database transaction.
3. If available, select any available [slow queries](#slowsql_details) listed on the page.

If you do not see expected slow query data, follow the [troubleshooting tips](#troubleshooting).

## Configuration [#settings]

In general, you can configure your slow query settings either of these ways:

* Agent configuration
* [Server-side configuration](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration) (if available for your agent)

Agent configuration gives you more options than server-side configuration does. How you choose to configure slow queries will depend on your own setup and preferences. For more information, see the documentation for the specific agent:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="c-sdk"
    title="C SDK"
  >
    You can report slow query traces for SQL databases only. For more information, see [Instrument your application with the C SDK](/docs/agents/c-sdk/instrumentation/instrument-your-app-c-sdk#slow-query-datastore).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="go"
    title="Go"
  >
    Agent configuration options:

    * Enable/disable: [`SlowQuery.Enabled`](/docs/agents/go-agent/configuration/go-agent-configuration#slow-query)
    * Slow query threshold: [`SlowQuery.Threshold`](/docs/agents/go-agent/configuration/go-agent-configuration#slow-query-threshold)
    * For other datastore config options, see [Datastore tracer configuration](/docs/agents/go-agent/configuration/go-agent-configuration#datastore-tracer).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="java"
    title="Java"
  >
    Agent configuration:

    * Slow query threshold: [`explain_threshold`](/docs/agents/java-agent/configuration/java-agent-configuration-config-file#tt-explain_threshold).
    * For other settings related to slow transactions and queries, see the [Transaction tracer config options](/docs/agents/java-agent/configuration/java-agent-configuration-config-file#h2-Transaction-tracer).

    You can also edit basic slow query settings via [server-side configuration](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration#customize-ssc).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="net"
    title=".NET"
  >
    Agent configuration:

    * Enable/disable: [`slowSql enabled`](/docs/agents/net-agent/configuration/net-agent-configuration#slow_sql)
    * Slow query threshold: [explainThreshold](/docs/agents/net-agent/configuration/net-agent-configuration#tracer-explainThreshold)
    * For other settings related to slow transactions and queries, see the [Transaction tracer config options](/docs/agents/net-agent/configuration/net-agent-configuration#transaction_tracer) and the [Datastore tracer options](/docs/agents/net-agent/configuration/net-agent-configuration#datastore_tracer).

    You can also edit basic slow query settings via [server-side configuration](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration#customize-ssc).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="node"
    title="Node.js"
  >
    Agent configuration:

    * Enable/disable: [`enabled`](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration#slow-sql-enabled)
    * Threshold: [`explain_threshold`](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration#explain_threshold)
    * Maximum slow query samples: [`max_samples`](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration#slow-sql-max-samples)
    * For other settings related to slow transactions and queries, see the [Transaction tracer config options](/docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration#tx_tracer_config).

    [Server-side configuration](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration) of slow query data is not possible for the Node.js agent.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="php"
    title="PHP"
  >
    Agent configuration:

    * Enable/disable: [`slow_sql`](/docs/agents/php-agent/configuration/php-agent-configuration#inivar-tt-slowsql)
    * Threshold: [`explain_threshold`](/docs/agents/php-agent/configuration/php-agent-configuration#inivar-tt-epthreshold)
    * For other settings related to slow transactions and queries, see the [Transaction tracer config options](/docs/agents/php-agent/configuration/php-agent-configuration#inivar-tt-settings).

    [Server-side configuration](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration) is not possible for the PHP agent.
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="python"
    title="Python"
  >
    Agent configuration:

    * Slow query threshold: [`explain_threshold`](/docs/agents/python-agent/configuration/python-agent-configuration#txn-tracer-explain-threshold)
    * For other settings related to slow transactions and queries, see the [Transaction tracer config options](/docs/agents/python-agent/configuration/python-agent-configuration#txn-tracer-settings) and the [Datastore tracer options](/docs/agents/python-agent/configuration/python-agent-configuration#datastore-tracer-settings).

    You can also edit basic slow query settings via [server-side configuration](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration#customize-ssc).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="ruby"
    title="Ruby"
  >
    Agent configuration:

    * Enable/disable: [`slow_sql.enabled`](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/ruby-agent-configuration#slow_sql-enabled)
    * Slow query threshold: [`slow_sql.explain_threshold`](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/ruby-agent-configuration#slow_sql-explain_threshold)
    * For other settings related to slow transactions and queries, see the [Transaction tracer config options](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/ruby-agent-configuration#transaction_tracer) and the [Slow SQL config options](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/ruby-agent-configuration#slow_sql).

    If applicable for your application's agent language, you can also edit basic slow query settings by using [server-side configuration](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/configuration/server-side-agent-configuration#customize-ssc).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Slow queries metrics [#slowsql_details]

The slow queries list contains the following metrics:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th width={150}>
        **Metric**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Description**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `Response time`
      </td>

      <td>
        The average response time for the statements sampled.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `Sample count`
      </td>

      <td>
        The number of slow queries identified in the sample.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

To view additional details, select an individual slow query:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th width={150}>
        **Metric**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Description**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `Start time`
      </td>

      <td>
        When the stack trace began collecting the data shown.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `Max time`
      </td>

      <td>
        The maximum time for all similar query statements in the sample.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `Action`
      </td>

      <td>
        The action or process invoking the query.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `Query`
      </td>

      <td>
        The query that is being reported as slow. Depending on your configuration, some parts of the query may be obfuscated.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `Stack trace`
      </td>

      <td>
        Where in the code the statement was called.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

For MySQL, we provide a query analysis, which explains what happened in your query and what you might do to speed it up. Other databases display an explain plan whenever possible.

## Troubleshooting: No slow query data [#troubleshooting]

If you do not see slow query data, it may be for any of these reasons:

* The slow query feature has been disabled.
* The threshold is set to too high a duration and no slow queries are being reported.
* The query obfuscation setting (usually `record_sql` or similar) may be set to `Off`.

To solve the problem, try adjusting the [configuration options](#settings).
