src/content/docs/alerts/create-alert/examples/scope-alert-thresholds-specific-instances.mdx, before:

---
title: Scope alert thresholds to specific instances
tags:
  - Alerts  
  - Alert conditions
metaDescription: How to to set alert condition thresholds that trigger when they are breached by any of your Java app's instances.
redirects:
  - /docs/new-relic-alerts-alert-specific-hosts-or-jvms
  - /docs/new-relic-alerts-alert-specific-servers-or-hosting-services
  - /docs/new-relic-alerts-scope-alerts-specific-instances
  - /docs/scope-alert-thresholds-specific-instances
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/configuring-alert-policies/scope-alert-thresholds-specific-instances
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/defining-conditions/scope-alert-thresholds-specific-instances
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/scope-alert-thresholds-specific-instances
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/advanced-alerts/advanced-techniques/scope-alert-thresholds-specific-instances
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

You can set alert [thresholds](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#alert-threshold) that trigger when they're breached by any of your Java app's instances. Scoping the condition to instances of your app is helpful for detecting anomalies that occur only in a subset of your app's instances.

These sorts of anomalies are easy to miss for apps that aggregate metrics across a large number of instances. By looking at each instance, you can more quickly identify where potential problems are originating.

## Example [#example]

In this example, you set up a policy for a Java app with three instances. You want to open an incident when the condition's critical threshold for any instance's error rate is greater than .02% <DNT>**for at least**</DNT> five minutes.

During a five-minute time period the three instances have these error rates:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "100px" }}>
        <DNT>
          **App instance**
        </DNT>
      </th>

      <th style={{ width: "100px" }}>
        <DNT>
          **4:45pm**
        </DNT>
      </th>

      <th style={{ width: "100px" }}>
        <DNT>
          **4:50pm**
        </DNT>
      </th>

      <th>
        <DNT>
          **Incident opened?**
        </DNT>
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        A
      </td>

      <td>
        0.00%
      </td>

      <td>
        0.00%
      </td>

      <td>
        No. This instance remained below the target threshold the entire time.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        B
      </td>

      <td>
        0.02%
      </td>

      <td>
        0.03%
      </td>

      <td>
        Yes. The alert threshold exceeded the 0.02% threshold for this instance for at least five minutes.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        C
      </td>

      <td>
        0.10%
      </td>

      <td>
        0.00%
      </td>

      <td>
        No. The threshold value must be breached for [at least five consecutive minutes](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/configuring-alert-policies/define-thresholds-trigger-alert#threshold-triggers) to open an incident.

        However, if you had set the threshold for <DNT>**at least once**</DNT> in five minutes, then the threshold value must be breached [at least once](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/configuring-alert-policies/minimum-maximum-values#violation) during the five-minute period.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Create instance-based alert condition [#procedure]

<img
  title="Create alerts based on threshold instances"
  alt="A screenshot showing what to select to create alerts based on threshold instances"
  src="/images/alerts_screenshot-crop_thresholds-instances.webp"
/>

To create a policy that triggers notifications for incidents by your app's individual instances:

1. Follow the [basic workflow process](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/configuring-alert-policies/alert-policy-workflow#alert-policy-process) to set up a policy.
2. When creating a [condition](/docs/alerts/create-alert/create-alert-condition/alert-conditions) (step 2), select [<DNT>**APM**</DNT>](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/configuring-alert-policies/select-product-targets-alert-condition).
3. Select <DNT>**Application metric**</DNT> as the type of condition.
4. To evaluate alert threshold incidents <DNT>**individually**</DNT> for each of the app's selected instances, select <DNT>**Scope to Java application instances**</DNT>.
5. Select <DNT>**Next, select entities**</DNT>, then identify one or more apps for this condition.
6. Optional: Change the time when <InlinePopover type="alerts"/> will force-close the incidents (default is 24 hours).
7. Use <DNT>**By condition**</DNT> or <DNT>**By condition and signal**</DNT> [alert event preference](/docs/alerts/organize-alerts/specify-when-alerts-create-events).
8. Continue the rest of the [policy workflow process (step 3)](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/configuring-alert-policies/alert-policy-workflow#alert-policy-process).

<Callout variant="tip">
  To open incidents based on the <DNT>**average**</DNT> of all instances for your apps, select <DNT>**Scope to the application**</DNT> instead of <DNT>**Scope to Java application instances**</DNT>.
</Callout>

## Use "By condition" incident preference [#targets]

When setting the [alert event preference](/docs/alerts/organize-alerts/specify-when-alerts-create-events) for policies containing instance-based conditions, we recommend that you select <DNT>**By condition**</DNT> instead of <DNT>**By condition and signal**</DNT>. Although apps are the selected entities for this condition, we evaluate each JVM as a separate entity.

If you set your <DNT>**Incident preference**</DNT> to <DNT>**By condition and signal**</DNT>, a separate incident will be opened for each JVM that breaches the critical threshold. When an app fails across multiple JVMs, this can lead to alert "fatigue" and frustration.

## Use REST API for instance alerts

To create instance-based [alert conditions with the New Relic REST API](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/rest-api-alerts/manage-entities-alerts-conditions), include these items with your REST API call:

* Your [API key](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key).
* The numeric [`entity_id`](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#entity) for the [entity](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#entity) being monitored
* The [`condition_id`](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#alert-condition) (available from the API Explorer: [<DNT>**Alerts Conditions > GET > List**</DNT>](https://rpm.newrelic.com/api/explore/alerts_entity_conditions/list))
* The `entity_type` (set to `"application"`)
* The `condition_scope` (set to `"instance"` for a Java application instance or `"application"` for a Java app)

Here is an example of the API request format and JSON response.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="instance-api"
    title="Instance alert API call"
  >
    Use this format for your API call:

    ```sh
    curl -X PUT 'https://api.newrelic.com/v2/alerts_entity_conditions/12345.json' \
         -H 'X-Api-Key:$API_KEY' -i \
         -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
         -G -d 'entity_type=application&condition_id=234567'
    ```

    * Replace `$API_KEY` with your [API key](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="instance-json"
    title="Instance alert JSON response"
  >
    The API returns the response as JSON.

    ```json
    {
      "condition": [
        {
          "id": 234567,
          "type": "apm_app_metric",
          "name": "demo",
          "enabled": true,
          "entities": [
            12345
          ],
          "metric": "apdex",
          "condition_scope": "instance",  <---<<< scope indicator
          "violation_close_timer": 24,
          "terms": [
            {
              "duration": "5",
              "operator": "above",
              "priority": "critical",
              "threshold": "1",
              "time_function": "all"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

Commit message:

Phase 2: update incident with alert event

src/content/docs/alerts/create-alert/examples/scope-alert-thresholds-specific-instances.mdx, after:

---
title: Scope alert thresholds to specific instances
tags:
  - Alerts  
  - Alert conditions
metaDescription: How to to set alert condition thresholds that trigger when they are breached by any of your Java app's instances.
redirects:
  - /docs/new-relic-alerts-alert-specific-hosts-or-jvms
  - /docs/new-relic-alerts-alert-specific-servers-or-hosting-services
  - /docs/new-relic-alerts-scope-alerts-specific-instances
  - /docs/scope-alert-thresholds-specific-instances
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/configuring-alert-policies/scope-alert-thresholds-specific-instances
  - /docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/defining-conditions/scope-alert-thresholds-specific-instances
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/scope-alert-thresholds-specific-instances
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/advanced-alerts/advanced-techniques/scope-alert-thresholds-specific-instances
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

You can set alert [thresholds](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#alert-threshold) that trigger when they're breached by any of your Java app's instances. Scoping the condition to instances of your app is helpful for detecting anomalies that occur only in a subset of your app's instances.

These sorts of anomalies are easy to miss for apps that aggregate metrics across a large number of instances. By looking at each instance, you can more quickly identify where potential problems are originating.

## Example [#example]

In this example, you set up a policy for a Java app with three instances. You want to open an alert event when the condition's critical threshold for any instance's error rate is greater than .02% <DNT>**for at least**</DNT> five minutes.

During a five-minute time period the three instances have these error rates:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "100px" }}>
        <DNT>
          **App instance**
        </DNT>
      </th>

      <th style={{ width: "100px" }}>
        <DNT>
          **4:45pm**
        </DNT>
      </th>

      <th style={{ width: "100px" }}>
        <DNT>
          **4:50pm**
        </DNT>
      </th>

      <th>
        <DNT>
          **alert event opened?**
        </DNT>
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        A
      </td>

      <td>
        0.00%
      </td>

      <td>
        0.00%
      </td>

      <td>
        No. This instance remained below the target threshold the entire time.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        B
      </td>

      <td>
        0.02%
      </td>

      <td>
        0.03%
      </td>

      <td>
        Yes. The alert threshold exceeded the 0.02% threshold for this instance for at least five minutes.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        C
      </td>

      <td>
        0.10%
      </td>

      <td>
        0.00%
      </td>

      <td>
        No. The threshold value must be breached for [at least five consecutive minutes](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/configuring-alert-policies/define-thresholds-trigger-alert#threshold-triggers) to open an alert event.

        However, if you had set the threshold for <DNT>**at least once**</DNT> in five minutes, then the threshold value must be breached [at least once](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/configuring-alert-policies/minimum-maximum-values#violation) during the five-minute period.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Create instance-based alert condition [#procedure]

<img
  title="Create alerts based on threshold instances"
  alt="A screenshot showing what to select to create alerts based on threshold instances"
  src="/images/alerts_screenshot-crop_thresholds-instances.webp"
/>

To create a policy that triggers notifications for alert events by your app's individual instances:

1. Follow the [basic workflow process](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/configuring-alert-policies/alert-policy-workflow#alert-policy-process) to set up a policy.
2. When creating a [condition](/docs/alerts/create-alert/create-alert-condition/alert-conditions) (step 2), select [<DNT>**APM**</DNT>](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/configuring-alert-policies/select-product-targets-alert-condition).
3. Select <DNT>**Application metric**</DNT> as the type of condition.
4. To evaluate alert threshold alert events <DNT>**individually**</DNT> for each of the app's selected instances, select <DNT>**Scope to Java application instances**</DNT>.
5. Select <DNT>**Next, select entities**</DNT>, then identify one or more apps for this condition.
6. Optional: Change the time when <InlinePopover type="alerts"/> will force-close the alert events (default is 24 hours).
7. Use <DNT>**By condition**</DNT> or <DNT>**By condition and signal**</DNT> [alert event preference](/docs/alerts/organize-alerts/specify-when-alerts-create-events).
8. Continue the rest of the [policy workflow process (step 3)](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/configuring-alert-policies/alert-policy-workflow#alert-policy-process).

<Callout variant="tip">
  To open alert events based on the <DNT>**average**</DNT> of all instances for your apps, select <DNT>**Scope to the application**</DNT> instead of <DNT>**Scope to Java application instances**</DNT>.
</Callout>

## Use "By condition" alert event preference [#targets]

When setting the [alert event preference](/docs/alerts/organize-alerts/specify-when-alerts-create-events) for policies containing instance-based conditions, we recommend that you select <DNT>**By condition**</DNT> instead of <DNT>**By condition and signal**</DNT>. Although apps are the selected entities for this condition, we evaluate each JVM as a separate entity.

If you set your <DNT>**Alert event preference**</DNT> to <DNT>**By condition and signal**</DNT>, a separate alert event will be opened for each JVM that breaches the critical threshold. When an app fails across multiple JVMs, this can lead to alert "fatigue" and frustration.

## Use REST API for instance alerts

To create instance-based [alert conditions with the New Relic REST API](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/rest-api-alerts/manage-entities-alerts-conditions), include these items with your REST API call:

* Your [API key](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key).
* The numeric [`entity_id`](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#entity) for the [entity](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#entity) being monitored
* The [`condition_id`](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#alert-condition) (available from the API Explorer: [<DNT>**Alerts Conditions > GET > List**</DNT>](https://rpm.newrelic.com/api/explore/alerts_entity_conditions/list))
* The `entity_type` (set to `"application"`)
* The `condition_scope` (set to `"instance"` for a Java application instance or `"application"` for a Java app)

Here is an example of the API request format and JSON response.

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="instance-api"
    title="Instance alert API call"
  >
    Use this format for your API call:

    ```sh
    curl -X PUT 'https://api.newrelic.com/v2/alerts_entity_conditions/12345.json' \
         -H 'X-Api-Key:$API_KEY' -i \
         -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
         -G -d 'entity_type=application&condition_id=234567'
    ```

    * Replace `$API_KEY` with your [API key](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-rest-api-v2#api_key).
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="instance-json"
    title="Instance alert JSON response"
  >
    The API returns the response as JSON.

    ```json
    {
      "condition": [
        {
          "id": 234567,
          "type": "apm_app_metric",
          "name": "demo",
          "enabled": true,
          "entities": [
            12345
          ],
          "metric": "apdex",
          "condition_scope": "instance",  <---<<< scope indicator
          "violation_close_timer": 24,
          "terms": [
            {
              "duration": "5",
              "operator": "above",
              "priority": "critical",
              "threshold": "1",
              "time_function": "all"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>
