src/content/docs/data-apis/manage-data/calculate-data-ingest.mdx, before:

---
title: Estimate your data ingest cost
tags:
  - ingest data cost
  - data size
  - data ingest size
  - calculate data ingest costs
metaDescription: 'For organizations on the New Relic One pricing model, estimate the cost for data reported to New Relic.'
---

For New Relic organizations on the [New Relic One pricing model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing), several factors impact your costs: which edition you're on ([Standard, Pro, or Enterprise](https://newrelic.com/pricing)), how many billable users you have, and how much data you ingest. This resource will help you estimate your New Relic data ingest costs. 

## Get started [#get-started]

Before getting started, note that you can [sign up and use New Relic for free](https://newrelic.com/signup), without ever putting in a credit card. We give you [full visibility on your data ingest](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-data-coming-new-relic/#ui), so it's easy for you to figure out where data is coming from and [adjust your data ingest](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-data-coming-new-relic/#adjust-ingest) as you go. But if you want to do the work of estimating your future data costs beforehand, that's what this planning resource is for. 

When it comes to estimating your costs on the [New Relic One pricing model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing), figuring out your data ingest is probably the most complex part of the equation because it can (and will) vary. This data calculation doc should be useful if you're new to New Relic One pricing, or if you're expanding your New Relic monitoring. 

To get started, download [this data-sizing spreadsheet](??link). The instructions below will give you instructions on how to fill out that spreadsheet, which will auto-populate an estimated cost. **Note that the spreadsheet provides you only an estimate**: it is not a binding billing proposal.

This resource focuses on data ingest. Note that you get 100 GBs of data ingest per month for free. If you want more information about other pricing factors, see [New Relic One pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing). 

## Thoughts on getting accurate sizing [#accurate-sizing]

We analyzed 10,000 existing New Relic organizations of various sizes to arrive at the ingest rates used in our calculations. That said, you’ll get the most precise estimate by running a test installation to establish a consumption baseline. Ingest rates vary from one organization to the next, based on what kinds of things you monitor, the features you use, application behaviors, and more. 

For the most precise sizing:

* If you’re just signing up to New Relic, you might consider creating a test installation using a representative environment similar to what you’ll need moving forward. Then use the baseline ingest from the trial to extrapolate what your full environment would require. To do this, [create a new free account](https://newrelic.com/signup), and use one of our [instant observability options](https://developer.newrelic.com/instant-observability/) to get started reporting data. 
* If you’re an existing customer, use actual consumption information from the [data management hub](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-your-data/#where-to-find-the-data-management-hub) or by [querying your data ingest](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/usage-queries-alerts) to estimate new or added ingest.
* Know your use cases so you can include factors that affect ingest rates. Your estimates will often be general and sized as high, medium, or low ingest rates. 
* Use the discovery questions and guidance in the following sections to forecast ingest.

Note that the [data estimation spreadsheet](?link) will be most useful for basic scenarios where you know the number of application performance monitoring (APM) agents, hosts, and logs you use.

## Work through the cost estimator spreadsheet [#work-sizing-calculator]

The following sections explain how to use the data estimation spreadsheet that you [previously downloaded](#get-started). Each section describes the type of information you need to provide and how to measure your ingest for those data types.

### Sizing example

For a new customer who has 8 TB of log data stored for 13 months, 120 hosts, and 80 JVMs, this is how the calculation works out:

``` 
APM: 80 * 5.4 GB/mo = 432 GB/mo
Infra: 120 * 5 GB/mo = 600 GB/mo
Logs: 8 TB / 13 mo = 615 GB/mo
Included in free tier: 100 GB/mo
Retention: 25¢ + 12 mo * 5¢ = 85¢ GB/mo

Total: 615 GB + 600 GB + 432 GB - 100 GB = 
1547 GB/mo * 85¢ * 12 mo = $15,780/yr
```

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="apm-ingest-rates"
    title="Size your APM agent ingest"
  >
Ingest rates are measured per [agent](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#agent), not per [host](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#host). You might have multiple agents monitoring a single host.

In this section, you estimate whether you have low, medium, or high ingest rates from APM agents. We’ve built an average of the data volume for all APM agent types into the spreadsheet calculator. When filling out this section, consider these questions:
* How many APM agents will you deploy?
* What types of applications will you monitor? Understanding how the application is used and the application complexity is important. For example, e-commerce apps will have much higher throughput than an internal application.
* Will you use features that contribute to higher ingest rates? See the criteria questions that follow for more detail.

## Criteria for calculating ingest rates per APM agent

In general, use higher ingest rates for applications that are integration/business tiers, large business-to-consumer (B2C) sites, or have significant custom instrumentation or metrics. That means, select **High** in these cases:

* For app behaviors and environments where you expect high throughput and a high number of errors; and if the app is in a production environment.
* For complex app architectures (for example, a single front-end request spawns multiple back-end requests). 
* If you have a high number of key transactions.
* If you have custom instrumentation and [APM metrics](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/new-relic-data-types/#metrics).
* For highly attributed transactions.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
      Type 
      </th>
      <th>
      Low
      (50th percentile)

      </th>
      <th>
      Medium
      (75th percentile)
      </th>
      <th>
      High
      (90th percentile)
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
      All types blended  
      </td>
      <td>
      11.6 GB/month  
      </td>
      <td>
      22.9 GB/month 
      </td>
      <td>
      43.8 GB/month 
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      Java   
      </td>
      <td>
      16.4 GB/month  
      </td>
      <td>
      28.5 GB/month 
      </td>
      <td>
      49.4 GB/month  
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      .NET  
      </td>
      <td>
      6.3 GB/month 
      </td>
      <td>
      14.6 GB/month 
      </td>
      <td>
      31.8 GB/month  
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      Node.js   
      </td>
      <td>
      13.1 GB/month  
      </td>
      <td>
      33.2 GB/month  
      </td>
      <td>
      92.6 GB/month 
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      PHP  
      </td>
      <td>
      17.9 GB/month  
      </td>
      <td>
      34.2 GB/month  
      </td>
      <td>
      72.7 GB/month  
      </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
 
Add APM agent ingest to the spreadsheet:

1. Add the number of APM agents that you will monitor.
2. Approximate the amount of ingest you’ll need for your agents and select one of the options. In general, if you’re signing up for New Relic at the entry-level Standard edition, you can probably select "low":  

For how to manage your data ingest, see [Manage data ingest](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-data-coming-new-relic/#adjust-ingest). 

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="infra-agent-ingest"
    title="Size your infrastructure agent ingest"
  >
Sizing your [infrastructure monitoring](/docs/infrastructure/infrastructure-monitoring/get-started/get-started-infrastructure-monitoring) data ingest depends on the number of agents and integrations you have, and how much data they're each reporting.  

When calculating the volume of your infrastructure ingest, take into account:
* How many infrastructure agents do you think you'll need? 
* Which integrations contribute to higher ingest rates? The following are some approximate sizes. You should also take the size of your environments into account. If they’re very large, for example, these rates might not be accurate.
    * [On-host integrations](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/get-started/introduction-host-integrations) (low)
    * Cloud integrations (low to medium)
    * Kubernetes integrations (medium to high)

Add infrastructure agent ingest to the spreadsheet: 

1. At step 3 in the spreadsheet, input your estimated number of infrastructure agents. To determine this, decide how many hosts you’ll run infrastructure agents on.
2. At step 4, assign a size for the volume of your infrastructure:
  * Start with your base ingest rate as **Low** if you'll have only a few on-host integrations.
  * Adjust to medium or high depending on how many and how high the volume of your integrations. Consider whether you have cloud integrations with large footprints, or a large number of database on-host integrations, or multiple or large Kubernetes clusters. For example:
    * If running two or more low or medium impact integrations such as cloud or on-host integrations, choose **Medium** ingest rate.
    * If running all three types of integrations (oh-host, cloud, containers) or observing really large Kubernetes environments, choose **High** for your ingest rates.

For how to manage your data ingest, see [Manage data ingest](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-data-coming-new-relic/#adjust-ingest). 

  </Collapser>

 <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="log-data-ingest"
    title="Size your log data ingest"
  >

For this section, you add an estimated amount of ingest in gigabytes. 

When estimating log data ingest:

* Use current logs volume. For example:
    * Pull information from existing ELK, Splunk, or Sumo storage and divide by total months that data is currently retained to get a per-month rate.
    * Multiply your average log file size by the number of logs you use, and extrapolate to get a per-month rate.
* Subtract security (PCI/HIPAA) and audit logs.
    * Generally, 40-50% of current ELK, Splunk, and Sumo storage is used for troubleshooting.
* Understand your retention requirements.
    * Typically, troubleshooting logs are not that valuable after 30 days of retention.

In section 5, add your estimated monthly log data ingest, in GB. You can estimate this as 40-50% of your existing ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana), Splunk, or Sumo data ingest.  

For how to manage your data ingest, see [Manage data ingest](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-data-coming-new-relic/#adjust-ingest). 

  </Collapser>

  
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="add-retention"
    title="Add additional retention"
  >
You can adjust the baseline data retention settings for each data source. To learn about retention and the baselines, see [Data retention](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-data-retention). 

Retention considerations:
* For each additional month (30 days) of retention, the cost is $0.05 per GB ingested per month.
* Retention is added evenly across all namespaces up to a maximum of 395 days. Retention cannot be extended for just one namespace (for example, just logs or custom events). The increased rate is applied to all ingested data.

In section 6 of the spreadsheet, select the additional months of retention that you want.

  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

## Finish the estimate

When you complete the extended retention section, the total estimated price is displayed in the **Calculations** section of the spreadsheet. This rough estimate also includes five percent that is added to the total ingest to cover other New Relic features that are often used by customers, including browser monitoring and mobile monitoring. Use of these other features is typically pretty low for most new customers. 

## Other potential data ingest costs

Because this billing calculation was designed for newer customers, it uses the implementations and costs that our newer customers often have. For example, we haven’t provided cost estimates for browser monitoring, mobile monitoring, network performance monitoring, or other services. (Maybe worth noting: neither our basic alerting features nor our synthetic monitors contribute to data ingest.) But be aware that high levels of data ingest by other tools can impact costs.

## Other billing factors [#other-costs]

Data ingest is one billing factor for New Relic One pricing. To learn about others, see [New Relic One pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing).

Commit message:

fix(data estimator): add spreadsheet link

src/content/docs/data-apis/manage-data/calculate-data-ingest.mdx, after:

---
title: Estimate your data ingest cost
tags:
  - ingest data cost
  - data size
  - data ingest size
  - calculate data ingest costs
metaDescription: 'For organizations on the New Relic One pricing model, estimate the cost for data reported to New Relic.'
---

For New Relic organizations on the [New Relic One pricing model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing), several factors impact your costs: which edition you're on ([Standard, Pro, or Enterprise](https://newrelic.com/pricing)), how many billable users you have, and how much data you ingest. This resource will help you estimate your New Relic data ingest costs. 

## Get started [#get-started]

Before getting started, note that you can [sign up and use New Relic for free](https://newrelic.com/signup), without ever putting in a credit card. We give you [full visibility on your data ingest](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-data-coming-new-relic/#ui), so it's easy for you to figure out where data is coming from and [adjust your data ingest](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-data-coming-new-relic/#adjust-ingest) as you go. But if you want to do the work of estimating your future data costs beforehand, that's what this planning resource is for. 

When it comes to estimating your costs on the [New Relic One pricing model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing), figuring out your data ingest is probably the most complex part of the equation because it can (and will) vary. This data calculation doc should be useful if you're new to New Relic One pricing, or if you're expanding your New Relic monitoring. 

To get started, make your own copy of [this Google spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1natQ4YhmjDIH8YgkPblIRP2R8h07V4TNAw3EJDu91_g/edit?usp=sharing). The instructions below will give you instructions on how to fill out that spreadsheet, which will auto-populate an estimated cost. **Note that the spreadsheet provides you only an estimate**: it's not a binding billing proposal.

This resource focuses on data ingest. Note that you get 100 GBs of data ingest per month for free. If you want more information about other pricing factors, see [New Relic One pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing). 

## Thoughts on getting accurate sizing [#accurate-sizing]

We analyzed 10,000 existing New Relic organizations of various sizes to arrive at the ingest rates used in our calculations. That said, you’ll get the most precise estimate by running a test installation to establish a consumption baseline. Ingest rates vary from one organization to the next, based on what kinds of things you monitor, the features you use, application behaviors, and more. 

For the most precise sizing:

* If you’re just signing up to New Relic, you might consider creating a test installation using a representative environment similar to what you’ll need moving forward. Then use the baseline ingest from the trial to extrapolate what your full environment would require. To do this, [create a new free account](https://newrelic.com/signup), and use one of our [instant observability options](https://developer.newrelic.com/instant-observability/) to get started reporting data. 
* If you’re an existing customer, use actual consumption information from the [data management hub](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-your-data/#where-to-find-the-data-management-hub) or by [querying your data ingest](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/usage-queries-alerts) to estimate new or added ingest.
* Know your use cases so you can include factors that affect ingest rates. Your estimates will often be general and sized as high, medium, or low ingest rates. 
* Use the discovery questions and guidance in the following sections to forecast ingest.

Note that the [data estimation spreadsheet](?link) will be most useful for basic scenarios where you know the number of application performance monitoring (APM) agents, hosts, and logs you use.

## Work through the cost estimator spreadsheet [#work-sizing-calculator]

The following sections explain how to use the data estimation spreadsheet that you [previously downloaded](#get-started). Each section describes the type of information you need to provide and how to measure your ingest for those data types.

### Sizing example

For a new customer who has 8 TB of log data stored for 13 months, 120 hosts, and 80 JVMs, this is how the calculation works out:

``` 
APM: 80 * 5.4 GB/mo = 432 GB/mo
Infra: 120 * 5 GB/mo = 600 GB/mo
Logs: 8 TB / 13 mo = 615 GB/mo
Included in free tier: 100 GB/mo
Retention: 25¢ + 12 mo * 5¢ = 85¢ GB/mo

Total: 615 GB + 600 GB + 432 GB - 100 GB = 
1547 GB/mo * 85¢ * 12 mo = $15,780/yr
```

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="apm-ingest-rates"
    title="Size your APM agent ingest"
  >
Ingest rates are measured per [agent](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#agent), not per [host](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#host). You might have multiple agents monitoring a single host.

In this section, you estimate whether you have low, medium, or high ingest rates from APM agents. We’ve built an average of the data volume for all APM agent types into the spreadsheet calculator. When filling out this section, consider these questions:
* How many APM agents will you deploy?
* What types of applications will you monitor? Understanding how the application is used and the application complexity is important. For example, e-commerce apps will have much higher throughput than an internal application.
* Will you use features that contribute to higher ingest rates? See the criteria questions that follow for more detail.

## Criteria for calculating ingest rates per APM agent

In general, use higher ingest rates for applications that are integration/business tiers, large business-to-consumer (B2C) sites, or have significant custom instrumentation or metrics. That means, select **High** in these cases:

* For app behaviors and environments where you expect high throughput and a high number of errors; and if the app is in a production environment.
* For complex app architectures (for example, a single front-end request spawns multiple back-end requests). 
* If you have a high number of key transactions.
* If you have custom instrumentation and [APM metrics](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/new-relic-data-types/#metrics).
* For highly attributed transactions.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
      Type 
      </th>
      <th>
      Low
      (50th percentile)

      </th>
      <th>
      Medium
      (75th percentile)
      </th>
      <th>
      High
      (90th percentile)
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
      All types blended  
      </td>
      <td>
      11.6 GB/month  
      </td>
      <td>
      22.9 GB/month 
      </td>
      <td>
      43.8 GB/month 
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      Java   
      </td>
      <td>
      16.4 GB/month  
      </td>
      <td>
      28.5 GB/month 
      </td>
      <td>
      49.4 GB/month  
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      .NET  
      </td>
      <td>
      6.3 GB/month 
      </td>
      <td>
      14.6 GB/month 
      </td>
      <td>
      31.8 GB/month  
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      Node.js   
      </td>
      <td>
      13.1 GB/month  
      </td>
      <td>
      33.2 GB/month  
      </td>
      <td>
      92.6 GB/month 
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
      PHP  
      </td>
      <td>
      17.9 GB/month  
      </td>
      <td>
      34.2 GB/month  
      </td>
      <td>
      72.7 GB/month  
      </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
 
Add APM agent ingest to the spreadsheet:

1. Add the number of APM agents that you will monitor.
2. Approximate the amount of ingest you’ll need for your agents and select one of the options. In general, if you’re signing up for New Relic at the entry-level Standard edition, you can probably select "low":  

For how to manage your data ingest, see [Manage data ingest](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-data-coming-new-relic/#adjust-ingest). 

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="infra-agent-ingest"
    title="Size your infrastructure agent ingest"
  >
Sizing your [infrastructure monitoring](/docs/infrastructure/infrastructure-monitoring/get-started/get-started-infrastructure-monitoring) data ingest depends on the number of agents and integrations you have, and how much data they're each reporting.  

When calculating the volume of your infrastructure ingest, take into account:
* How many infrastructure agents do you think you'll need? 
* Which integrations contribute to higher ingest rates? The following are some approximate sizes. You should also take the size of your environments into account. If they’re very large, for example, these rates might not be accurate.
    * [On-host integrations](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/get-started/introduction-host-integrations) (low)
    * Cloud integrations (low to medium)
    * Kubernetes integrations (medium to high)

Add infrastructure agent ingest to the spreadsheet: 

1. At step 3 in the spreadsheet, input your estimated number of infrastructure agents. To determine this, decide how many hosts you’ll run infrastructure agents on.
2. At step 4, assign a size for the volume of your infrastructure:
  * Start with your base ingest rate as **Low** if you'll have only a few on-host integrations.
  * Adjust to medium or high depending on how many and how high the volume of your integrations. Consider whether you have cloud integrations with large footprints, or a large number of database on-host integrations, or multiple or large Kubernetes clusters. For example:
    * If running two or more low or medium impact integrations such as cloud or on-host integrations, choose **Medium** ingest rate.
    * If running all three types of integrations (oh-host, cloud, containers) or observing really large Kubernetes environments, choose **High** for your ingest rates.

For how to manage your data ingest, see [Manage data ingest](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-data-coming-new-relic/#adjust-ingest). 

  </Collapser>

 <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="log-data-ingest"
    title="Size your log data ingest"
  >

For this section, you add an estimated amount of ingest in gigabytes. 

When estimating log data ingest:

* Use current logs volume. For example:
    * Pull information from existing ELK, Splunk, or Sumo storage and divide by total months that data is currently retained to get a per-month rate.
    * Multiply your average log file size by the number of logs you use, and extrapolate to get a per-month rate.
* Subtract security (PCI/HIPAA) and audit logs.
    * Generally, 40-50% of current ELK, Splunk, and Sumo storage is used for troubleshooting.
* Understand your retention requirements.
    * Typically, troubleshooting logs are not that valuable after 30 days of retention.

In section 5, add your estimated monthly log data ingest, in GB. You can estimate this as 40-50% of your existing ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana), Splunk, or Sumo data ingest.  

For how to manage your data ingest, see [Manage data ingest](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-data-coming-new-relic/#adjust-ingest). 

  </Collapser>

  
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id="add-retention"
    title="Add additional retention"
  >
You can adjust the baseline data retention settings for each data source. To learn about retention and the baselines, see [Data retention](/docs/data-apis/manage-data/manage-data-retention). 

Retention considerations:
* For each additional month (30 days) of retention, the cost is $0.05 per GB ingested per month.
* Retention is added evenly across all namespaces up to a maximum of 395 days. Retention cannot be extended for just one namespace (for example, just logs or custom events). The increased rate is applied to all ingested data.

In section 6 of the spreadsheet, select the additional months of retention that you want.

  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

## Finish the estimate

When you complete the extended retention section, the total estimated price is displayed in the **Calculations** section of the spreadsheet. This rough estimate also includes five percent that is added to the total ingest to cover other New Relic features that are often used by customers, including browser monitoring and mobile monitoring. Use of these other features is typically pretty low for most new customers. 

## Other potential data ingest costs

Because this billing calculation was designed for newer customers, it uses the implementations and costs that our newer customers often have. For example, we haven’t provided cost estimates for browser monitoring, mobile monitoring, network performance monitoring, or other services. (Maybe worth noting: neither our basic alerting features nor our synthetic monitors contribute to data ingest.) But be aware that high levels of data ingest by other tools can impact costs.

## Other billing factors [#other-costs]

Data ingest is one billing factor for New Relic One pricing. To learn about others, see [New Relic One pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing).
