src/content/docs/alerts/admin/user-settings.mdx, before:

---
title: "Alerts user settings"
metaDescription: "Use alerts settings to set your grace period and inactive issue time policies."
freshnessValidatedDate: never
redirects:
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/applied-intelligence/incident-intelligence/user-settings
---

For New Relic alerts, our grace period setting controls how much time should pass before you're notified about an issue. Our inactive issues setting controls how long you want to wait before an inactive issue is automatically closed.

These settings apply to all data coming in to your account.

To find your alerts settings, go to <DNT>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Alerts > General**</DNT>.

## Grace period policy for accounts using decisions [#grace-period]

For issues that are candidates for our correlation logic you can set a grace period. The grace period is the time between when an issue is created and when that issue generates notifications. Grace periods are used to reduce the number of unnecessary notifications.

For each priority level, you can set the grace period from 0 to 20 minutes. The longer the grace period, the more time our system has to analyze and correlate new activity with past activity.

If there are any notifications to send, they're sent when the grace period time has elapsed.

The grade period default values are:

* Low: 15 minutes
* Medium: 10 minutes
* High: 5 minutes
* Critical: 1 minute

<DNT>
  **Note: Grace period is eligible only for users who use correlations**
</DNT>

## Auto Close Issue Window [#auto-close-issue-window]

The auto close issues setting controls how much time elapses before an inactive issue is automatically closed. The range is from 1-30 days and the default value is 3 days.

<Callout variant="tip">
  This setting is related to the ["close open incidents after..." setting](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-incidents/how-alert-condition-incidents-are-closed/#time-limit) for each condition.

  When the time periods in these two settings are different, our system uses the shorter time period, regardless of the setting. For example, if the close open incident time setting is 3 days and the inactive issue time setting is 2 days, the issue (along with all associated incidents) will close in 2 days.
</Callout>

## Inactive Issue [#inactiv-issue]

When an issue is inactive, it won't be aggregated or correlated by our system. For example, if a new issue comes in that's similar to the inactive issue, it's treated as new, rather than correlated to the inactive issue.

An issue is considered inactive when it has collected 5,000 incidents.

After 30 days, an inactive issue will be automatically closed.

## Cross-account alerts [#cross-account-alerts]

The cross-account alerts settings allow you to configure an alert condition to target data reported to an account other than the one that owns the condition.

Commit message:

Update incident(s) with alert event(s) in content

src/content/docs/alerts/admin/user-settings.mdx, after:

---
title: "Alerts user settings"
metaDescription: "Use alerts settings to set your grace period and inactive issue time policies."
freshnessValidatedDate: never
redirects:
  - /docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/applied-intelligence/incident-intelligence/user-settings
---

For New Relic alerts, our grace period setting controls how much time should pass before you're notified about an issue. Our inactive issues setting controls how long you want to wait before an inactive issue is automatically closed.

These settings apply to all data coming in to your account.

To find your alerts settings, go to <DNT>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Alerts > General**</DNT>.

## Grace period policy for accounts using decisions [#grace-period]

For issues that are candidates for our correlation logic you can set a grace period. The grace period is the time between when an issue is created and when that issue generates notifications. Grace periods are used to reduce the number of unnecessary notifications.

For each priority level, you can set the grace period from 0 to 20 minutes. The longer the grace period, the more time our system has to analyze and correlate new activity with past activity.

If there are any notifications to send, they're sent when the grace period time has elapsed.

The grade period default values are:

* Low: 15 minutes
* Medium: 10 minutes
* High: 5 minutes
* Critical: 1 minute

<DNT>
  **Note: Grace period is eligible only for users who use correlations**
</DNT>

## Auto Close Issue Window [#auto-close-issue-window]

The auto close issues setting controls how much time elapses before an inactive issue is automatically closed. The range is from 1-30 days and the default value is 3 days.

<Callout variant="tip">
  This setting is related to the ["close open alert events after..." setting](/docs/alerts/alert-event-management/how-alert-condition-events-are-closed/#time-limit) for each condition.

  When the time periods in these two settings are different, our system uses the shorter time period, regardless of the setting. For example, if the close open alert event time setting is 3 days and the inactive issue time setting is 2 days, the issue (along with all associated alert events) will close in 2 days.
</Callout>

## Inactive Issue [#inactiv-issue]

When an issue is inactive, it won't be aggregated or correlated by our system. For example, if a new issue comes in that's similar to the inactive issue, it's treated as new, rather than correlated to the inactive issue.

An issue is considered inactive when it has collected 5,000 alert events.

After 30 days, an inactive issue will be automatically closed.

## Cross-account alerts [#cross-account-alerts]

The cross-account alerts settings allow you to configure an alert condition to target data reported to an account other than the one that owns the condition.
