src/content/docs/apm/agents/php-agent/frameworks-libraries/laravel.mdx, before:

---
title: PHP agent support for Laravel
tags:
  - Agents
  - PHP agent
  - Frameworks and libraries
metaDescription: 'New Relic PHP agent notes about Laravel.'
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/php-agent/frameworks-libraries/laravel
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

The New Relic PHP agent provides auto-instrumentation for Laravel web transactions, and background transactions initiated by Laravel Queue Workers. New Relic PHP Agent version 12.2.0.27 added auto-instrumentation of background transactions initiated by Laravel Horizon Workers.

## Configuration Recommendations for Laravel Horizon/Queue Support

For Laravel Horizon and Laravel Queue, it is recommended to set the [newrelic.daemon.app_connect_timeout](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/apm/agents/php-agent/configuration/php-agent-configuration/#inivar-daemon-app_connect_timeout)
INI setting to 5s:

```ini
newrelic.daemon.app_connect_timeout = 5s
```

Increasing this value ensures the daemon has enough time to connect to the backend when long-lived worker processes start. Additionally, this value can vary based on network conditions, which could require a higher timeout value. It is also important to note that this setting should only be modified for worker processes, as increasing the timeout may negatively impact latency of web transactions.

## Disabling Queue Instrumentation

Queue instrumentation is enabled by default. If for any reason you would like to disable queue instrumentation, you would add the following line to your `newrelic.ini` file:

```ini
newrelic.special = disable_laravel_queue
```

Commit message:

Added the laravel doc to the left nav and did editorial corrections

src/content/docs/apm/agents/php-agent/frameworks-libraries/laravel.mdx, after:

---
title: PHP agent support for Laravel
tags:
  - Agents
  - PHP agent
  - Frameworks and libraries
metaDescription: 'New Relic PHP agent notes about Laravel.'
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/php-agent/frameworks-libraries/laravel
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

The New Relic PHP agent provides automatic instrumentation for Laravel web transactions and background transactions initiated by Laravel Queue Workers. Starting with PHP agent version 12.2.0.27, automatic instrumentation also supports background transactions initiated by Laravel Horizon Workers.

## Configuration Recommendations for Laravel Horizon/Queue Support

For Laravel Horizon and Laravel Queue, set the [newrelic.daemon.app_connect_timeout](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/apm/agents/php-agent/configuration/php-agent-configuration/#inivar-daemon-app_connect_timeout)
INI setting to 5s:

```ini
newrelic.daemon.app_connect_timeout = 5s
```

Increasing this value ensures the daemon has enough time to connect to the backend when long-lived worker processes start. Network conditions might require an even higher timeout value. Configure this setting only for worker processes, because increasing the timeout can negatively impact web transaction latency.

## Disabling Queue Instrumentation

Queue instrumentation is enabled by default. To disable it, add the following line to your `newrelic.ini` file:

```ini
newrelic.special = disable_laravel_queue
```
