src/content/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/dashboards-api-migration-insights-api-nerdgraph.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Dashboard API migration: from Insights API to NerdGraph'
tags:
  - NerdGraph
  - Dashboards
  - Dashboards API
---

The [Insights Dashboard API](/docs/apis/insights-apis/insights-dashboard-api/) is deprecated, but you can use [NerdGraph](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph) (our GraphQL API) to create and configure dashboards.

If you're not migrating from the old Insights API, you can skip this doc and go to the new [Dashboards API](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/dashboards-api).

## Why a new dashboards API? [#why-new-api]

Our Insights product, which was a way to query data and create charts and dashboards, has been deprecated and its set of features moved over to be a core part of the [New Relic One platform](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/get-started/introduction-new-relic-one/). To learn more about this transition and new features, see the [Insights to New Relic One migration guide](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/transition-new-relic-one-insights/).

The Insights Dashboard API will be deprecated in July of 2021. Until then, if you are using Insights Dashboard API, you should attempt to switch over to using NerdGraph. 

You can continue to use an Insert API key with the Dashboards API, or you can use a [user key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#user-api-key), which is preferred. Read more about [API keys](/docs/apis/get-started/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/). 

## Starting out with NerdGraph [#starting-out]

[NerdGraph](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph) is the preferred API for making NRQL queries of your New Relic data.  Every user who uses NerdGraph needs their own user key.

When using NerdGraph, it helps to understand that our [dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards) are [entities](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/what-entity-new-relic) that report data from other entities, such as monitored apps, hosts and services. 

If you're new to NerdGraph and GraphQL, you may want to first read our [Introduction to NerdGraph](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph/) and some of [Create dashboards with NerdGraph](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/create-widgets-dashboards-api/).

The NerdGraph API explorer is located at [api.newrelic.com/graphiql](https://api.newrelic.com/graphiql).

## Operations mapping table [#operations-mapping-table]

The table below maps every Insights API operation to the new dashboards API.

| Insights API operation  | NerdGraph API query/mutation  | Notes  |
|---|---|---|
| List (GET)      | [entitySearch()](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/dashboards-api-migration-insights-api-nerdgraph/#entitysearch)           | View a paginated list of dashboards that match the filter. |
| Show (GET)      | [entity()](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/dashboards-api-migration-insights-api-nerdgraph/#entityquery)                  | View an existing dashboard given its entity guid. |
| Create (POST)   | [dashboardCreate()](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/dashboards-api-migration-insights-api-nerdgraph/#dashboard-create)    | Create a new dashboard.  |
| Update (PUT)    | [dashboardUpdate()](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/dashboards-api-migration-insights-api-nerdgraph/#dashboard-update)    | Update an existing dashboard given its entity guid.  |
| Delete (DELETE) | [dashboardDelete()](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/dashboards-api-migration-insights-api-nerdgraph/#dashboard-delete)    | Delete an existing dashboard given its entity guid.  |


## Dashboard properties mapping table [#dashboard-properties-mapping-table]

For more information about all the fields in the new dashboards GraphQL schema, have a look at [NerdGraph's GraphiQL explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer).

The table below maps dashboard properties from the Insights API to the new dashboards API.

| Insights API dashboard property  | NerdGraph API dashboard property  | Notes  |
|---|---|---|
| id                    | guid        | ID of the New Relic entity the dashboard now represents |
| createdAt             | createdAt   | |
| updatedAt             | updatedAt   | |
| title                 | name        | |
| editable              | [permissions](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/#dashboards-permissions) | `editable` and `visibility` merged in the same concept |
| visibility            | [permissions](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/#dashboards-permissions) | `editable` and `visibility` merged in the same concept |
| description           | description | |
| metadata              | -           | No need of versioning in GraphQL APIs |
| icon                  | -           | Not translated to New Relic One |
| grid_column_count     | -           | 12 column dashboards by default in New Relic One |
| filter                | -           | Not translated to New Relic One yet |

## Widget properties mapping table [#widget-properties-mapping-table]

For more information about all the fields in the new dashboards GraphQL schema, have a look at [NerdGraph's GraphiQL explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer).

The table below maps widget properties from the Insights API to the new dashboards API.

| Insights API dashboard property  | NerdGraph API dashboard property  | Notes  |
|---|---|---|
| id                                    | id                                | |
| account_id                            | -                                 | Translated into widget configuration for those that require one |
| visualization                         | visualization                     | |
| presentation.title                    | title                             | |
| presentation.drilldown_dashboard_id   | linkedEntities                    | Used to link a widget to a dashboard for the [facet linking](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/filter-new-relic-one-dashboards-facets) feature |
| presentation.notes                    | -                                 | Not translated to New Relic One yet |
| layout                                | layout                            | |
| data                                  | configuration + rawConfiguration  | |

<Callout variant="tip">
  To learn how to build every type of widget, see [Create dashboard widgets](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/create-widgets-dashboards-api/).
</Callout>

## Visualizations mapping table [#visualization-mapping-table]

We have simplified our widget visualizations by grouping the ones that were in fact the same but obtained through different types of queries. For instance, a line widget is plotted the same way regardless of the type of query: old `line_chart` vs. `comparison_line_chart` in Insights.

| Insights API visualization  | NerdGraph API visualization  |
|---|---|
|uniques_list|viz.table|
|single_event|viz.table|
|facet_table|viz.table|
|event_table|viz.table|
|faceted_area_chart|viz.area|
|predefined_metric_chart.application_breakdown|viz.area|
|predefined_metric_chart.scope_breakdown|viz.area|
|predefined_metric_chart.browser_breakdown|viz.area|
|predefined_metric_chart.background_breakdown|viz.area|
|predefined_metric_chart.solr_breakdown|viz.area|
|predefined_metric_chart.gc_runs_breakdown|viz.area|
|facet_bar_chart|viz.bar|
|billboard|viz.billboard|
|attribute_sheet|viz.billboard|
|billboard_comparison|viz.billboard|
|gauge|viz.bullet|
|event_feed|viz.event-feed|
|funnel|viz.funnel|
|heatmap|viz.heatmap|
|histogram|viz.histogram|
|inventory|infra.inventory|
|raw_json|viz.json|
|line_chart|viz.line|
|comparison_line_chart|viz.line|
|faceted_line_chart|viz.line|
|metric_line_chart|viz.line|
|markdown|viz.markdown|
|facet_pie_chart|viz.pie|

## Examples: from REST endpoints to GraphQL queries/mutations [#from-rest-to-mutation]

One of the main benefits of NerdGraph being a GraphQL-format API is that it provides a complete and understandable description of the APIs' data. By using the [NerdGraph API explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer), you can discover GraphQL types and fields, along with a brief explanation.

We want to facilitate your migration from the [Insights API](/docs/apis/insights-apis/insights-dashboard-api/) to the new New Relic One dashboards API. Find below some examples that illustrate how the old REST endpoints map to the new GraphQL queries or mutations.

### List (GET) -> entitySearch query [#entitysearch]

Dashboards in New Relic One embrace the concept of entity. They are now another entity in New Relic’s entity ecosystem.

Try it out using the [NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="list-all-dashboards"
    title="List all dashboard entities you have access to"
  >
    ```
      {
        actor {
          entitySearch(queryBuilder: {type: DASHBOARD}) {
            results {
              entities {
                ... on DashboardEntityOutline {
                  guid
                  name
                  accountId
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="list-dashboards-by-name"
    title="List all dashboards by name"
  >
    ```
      {
        actor {
          entitySearch(queryBuilder: {name: "<var>My dashboard</var>"}) {
            results {
              entities {
                ... on DashboardEntityOutline {
                  guid
                  name
                  accountId
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="list-dashboards-by-email"
    title="List all dashboards by creator’s email"
  >
    ```
      {
        actor {
          entitySearch(queryBuilder: {type: DASHBOARD, tags: {key: "<var>createdBy</var>", value: "<var>email@domain.com</var>"}}) {
            results {
              entities {
                ... on DashboardEntityOutline {
                  guid
                  name
                  accountId
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="list-dashboards-by-user-id"
    title="List all dashboards by creator’s user id"
  >
    ```
      {
        actor {
          entitySearch(query: "type ='<var>DASHBOARD</var>' and ownerId = '<var>2357322</var>'") {
            results {
              entities {
                ... on DashboardEntityOutline {
                  guid
                  name
                  accountId
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Show (GET) -> entity query [#entityquery]

In order to get information on a dashboard, all you need is to provide its unique entity identifier or entity guid. Then you can access all the dashboard properties that you are interested in by adding them in the GraphQL query.

Try it out using the [NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="get-dashboard"
    title="Get dashboard info given its entity guid"
  >
    ```
      {
        actor {
          entity(guid: "<var>MY_DASHBOARD_GUID</var>") {
            ... on DashboardEntity {
              guid
              accountId
              name
              createdAt
              updatedAt
              permissions
              description
              owner { email userId }
              pages {
                guid
                name
                createdAt
                updatedAt
                description
                owner { email userId }
                widgets {
                  id
                  visualization { id }
                  title
                  layout { row column height width }
                  rawConfiguration
                  linkedEntities { guid }
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Create (POST) -> dashboardCreate mutation [#dashboard-create]

Operations that mutate the state of the system are mutations in GraphQL APIs. You can create a dashboard by providing the required input for the `dashboardCreate` mutation. Although GraphQL APIs aim to be self-explanatory, Nerdgraph docs can help you with some information about the fields, like the doc about [how to build dashboard widgets](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/create-widgets-dashboards-api).

Try it out using the [NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="create-dashboard"
    title="Create dashboard with two pages and two widgets per page"
  >
    ```
      mutation {
        dashboardCreate(accountId: <var>1</var>, dashboard: {
          name: "My awesome dashboard",
          permissions: PUBLIC_READ_WRITE,
          pages: [{
            name: "My first page",
            widgets: [{
              visualization: { id: "viz.markdown" },
              title: "My markdown widget",
              layout: {
                row: 1,
                column: 1,
                width: 4,
                height: 3
              },
              rawConfiguration: {
                text: "#My markdown"
              }
            }, {
              visualization: { id: "viz.line" },
              title: "My line widget",
              layout: {
                row: 1,
                column: 5,
                width: 4,
                height: 3
              },
              rawConfiguration: {
                nrqlQueries: [{
                  accountId: 1,
                  query: "SELECT count(*) FROM Transaction FACET appName TIMESERIES"
                }]
              }
            }]
          }, {
            name: "My second page",
            widgets: [{
              visualization: { id: "viz.billboard" },
              title: "My billboard widget with thresholds",
              layout: {
                row: 1,
                column: 1,
                width: 4,
                height: 3
              },
              rawConfiguration: {
                nrqlQueries: [{
                  accountId: 1,
                  query: "SELECT count(*) FROM Transaction"
                }],
                thresholds: [{
                  alertSeverity: WARNING,
                  value: 650
                }, {
                  alertSeverity: CRITICAL,
                  value: 1500
                }]
              }
            }, {
              visualization: { id: "viz.table" },
              title: "My table widget",
              layout: {
                row: 1,
                column: 5,
                width: 4,
                height: 3
              },
              rawConfiguration: {
                nrqlQueries: [{
                  query: "SELECT * FROM Transaction",
                  accountId: 1
                }]
              }
            }]
          }]
        }) {
          errors {
            description
            type
          }
          entityResult {
            guid
            accountId
            name
            createdAt
            updatedAt
            permissions
            description
            owner { email userId }
            pages {
              guid
              name
              createdAt
              updatedAt
              description
              owner { email userId }
              widgets {
                id
                visualization { id }
                title
                layout { row column height width }
                rawConfiguration
                linkedEntities { guid }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Update (PUT) -> dashboardUpdate mutation [#dashboard-update]

The `dashboardUpdate` mutation allows you to update an existing dashboard by providing the existing dashboard guid and the new configuration. Similarly to creating a dashboard, the mutation tries to be self-explanatory, but you can look up the doc about [how to build dashboard widgets](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/create-widgets-dashboards-api).

Try it out using the [NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="update-dashboard"
    title="Update previously created dashboard to 1 page and 1 widget per page"
  >
    ```
      mutation {
        dashboardUpdate(guid: "<var>MY_DASHBOARD_GUID</var>" dashboard: {
          name: "My awesome dashboard",
          permissions: PUBLIC_READ_WRITE,
          pages: [{
            name: "My first page",
            widgets: [{
              visualization: { id: "viz.line" },
              title: "My line widget",
              layout: {
                row: 1,
                column: 1,
                width: 4,
                height: 3
              },
              rawConfiguration: {
                nrqlQueries: [{
                  accountId: 1,
                  query: "SELECT count(*) FROM Transaction FACET appName TIMESERIES"
                }]
              }
            }]
          }, {
            name: "My second page",
            widgets: [{
              visualization: { id: "viz.table" },
              title: "My table widget",
              layout: {
                row: 1,
                column: 1,
                width: 4,
                height: 3
              },
              rawConfiguration: {
                nrqlQueries: [{
                  query: "SELECT * FROM Transaction",
                  accountId: 1
                }]
              }
            }]
          }]
        }) {
          errors {
            description
            type
          }
          entityResult {
            guid
            accountId
            name
            createdAt
            updatedAt
            permissions
            description
            owner { email userId }
            pages {
              guid
              name
              createdAt
              updatedAt
              description
              owner { email userId }
              widgets {
                id
                visualization { id }
                title
                layout { row column height width }
                rawConfiguration
                linkedEntities { guid }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Delete (DELETE) -> dashboardDelete mutation [#dashboard-delete]

The `dashboardDelete` mutation allows you to delete an existing dashboard by providing its entity guid.

Try it out using the [NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="delete-dashboard"
    title="Delete previously created dashboard"
  >
    ```
      mutation {
        dashboardDelete(guid:"<var>MY_DASHBOARD_GUID</var>") {
          status
          errors {
            type
            description
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

Commit message:

fix(insights dashboards API): some readability fixes

src/content/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/dashboards-api-migration-insights-api-nerdgraph.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Dashboard API migration: from Insights API to NerdGraph'
tags:
  - NerdGraph
  - Dashboards
  - Dashboards API
---

The [Insights Dashboard API](/docs/apis/insights-apis/insights-dashboard-api/) is deprecated, but you can use [NerdGraph](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph) (our GraphQL API) to create and configure dashboards.

If you're not migrating from the old Insights API, you can skip this doc and go to the new [Dashboards API](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/dashboards-api).

## Why a new dashboards API? [#why-new-api]

Our Insights product, which was a way to query data and create charts and dashboards, has been deprecated and its set of features moved over to be a core part of the [New Relic One platform](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/get-started/introduction-new-relic-one/). To learn more about this transition and new features, see the [Insights to New Relic One migration guide](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/transition-new-relic-one-insights/).

The Insights Dashboard API will be deprecated in July of 2021. Until then, if you're using the Insights Dashboard API, you should attempt to switch over to using NerdGraph. Keep reading to learn how to get started with NerdGraph and learn about equivalent operations. 

## Get started with NerdGraph [#starting-out]

[NerdGraph](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph) is the preferred API for making NRQL queries of your New Relic data.  Every user who uses NerdGraph needs their own [user key](/docs/apis/get-started/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/).

When using NerdGraph, it helps to understand that our [dashboards](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards) are [entities](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/what-entity-new-relic) that report data from other entities, such as monitored apps, hosts and services. 

If you're new to NerdGraph and GraphQL, you may want to first read our [Introduction to NerdGraph](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph/) and some of [Create dashboards with NerdGraph](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/create-widgets-dashboards-api/).

The NerdGraph API explorer is located at [api.newrelic.com/graphiql](https://api.newrelic.com/graphiql).

## Operations mapping table [#operations-mapping-table]

The table below maps every Insights API operation to the new dashboards API.

| Insights API operation  | NerdGraph API query/mutation  | Notes  |
|---|---|---|
| List (GET)      | [entitySearch()](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/dashboards-api-migration-insights-api-nerdgraph/#entitysearch)           | View a paginated list of dashboards that match the filter. |
| Show (GET)      | [entity()](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/dashboards-api-migration-insights-api-nerdgraph/#entityquery)                  | View an existing dashboard given its entity guid. |
| Create (POST)   | [dashboardCreate()](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/dashboards-api-migration-insights-api-nerdgraph/#dashboard-create)    | Create a new dashboard.  |
| Update (PUT)    | [dashboardUpdate()](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/dashboards-api-migration-insights-api-nerdgraph/#dashboard-update)    | Update an existing dashboard given its entity guid.  |
| Delete (DELETE) | [dashboardDelete()](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/core-concepts/dashboards-api-migration-insights-api-nerdgraph/#dashboard-delete)    | Delete an existing dashboard given its entity guid.  |


## Dashboard properties mapping table [#dashboard-properties-mapping-table]

For more information about all the fields in the new dashboards GraphQL schema, have a look at [NerdGraph's GraphiQL explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer).

The table below maps dashboard properties from the Insights API to the new dashboards API.

| Insights API dashboard property  | NerdGraph API dashboard property  | Notes  |
|---|---|---|
| id                    | guid        | ID of the New Relic entity the dashboard now represents |
| createdAt             | createdAt   | |
| updatedAt             | updatedAt   | |
| title                 | name        | |
| editable              | [permissions](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/#dashboards-permissions) | `editable` and `visibility` merged in the same concept |
| visibility            | [permissions](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/introduction-dashboards/#dashboards-permissions) | `editable` and `visibility` merged in the same concept |
| description           | description | |
| metadata              | -           | No need of versioning in GraphQL APIs |
| icon                  | -           | Not translated to New Relic One |
| grid_column_count     | -           | 12 column dashboards by default in New Relic One |
| filter                | -           | Not translated to New Relic One yet |

## Widget properties mapping table [#widget-properties-mapping-table]

For more information about all the fields in the new dashboards GraphQL schema, have a look at [NerdGraph's GraphiQL explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer).

The table below maps widget properties from the Insights API to the new dashboards API.

| Insights API dashboard property  | NerdGraph API dashboard property  | Notes  |
|---|---|---|
| id                                    | id                                | |
| account_id                            | -                                 | Translated into widget configuration for those that require one |
| visualization                         | visualization                     | |
| presentation.title                    | title                             | |
| presentation.drilldown_dashboard_id   | linkedEntities                    | Used to link a widget to a dashboard for the [facet linking](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/filter-new-relic-one-dashboards-facets) feature |
| presentation.notes                    | -                                 | Not translated to New Relic One yet |
| layout                                | layout                            | |
| data                                  | configuration + rawConfiguration  | |

<Callout variant="tip">
  To learn how to build every type of widget, see [Create dashboard widgets](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/create-widgets-dashboards-api/).
</Callout>

## Visualizations mapping table [#visualization-mapping-table]

We have simplified our widget visualizations by grouping the ones that were in fact the same but obtained through different types of queries. For instance, a line widget is plotted the same way regardless of the type of query: old `line_chart` vs. `comparison_line_chart` in Insights.

| Insights API visualization  | NerdGraph API visualization  |
|---|---|
|uniques_list|viz.table|
|single_event|viz.table|
|facet_table|viz.table|
|event_table|viz.table|
|faceted_area_chart|viz.area|
|predefined_metric_chart.application_breakdown|viz.area|
|predefined_metric_chart.scope_breakdown|viz.area|
|predefined_metric_chart.browser_breakdown|viz.area|
|predefined_metric_chart.background_breakdown|viz.area|
|predefined_metric_chart.solr_breakdown|viz.area|
|predefined_metric_chart.gc_runs_breakdown|viz.area|
|facet_bar_chart|viz.bar|
|billboard|viz.billboard|
|attribute_sheet|viz.billboard|
|billboard_comparison|viz.billboard|
|gauge|viz.bullet|
|event_feed|viz.event-feed|
|funnel|viz.funnel|
|heatmap|viz.heatmap|
|histogram|viz.histogram|
|inventory|infra.inventory|
|raw_json|viz.json|
|line_chart|viz.line|
|comparison_line_chart|viz.line|
|faceted_line_chart|viz.line|
|metric_line_chart|viz.line|
|markdown|viz.markdown|
|facet_pie_chart|viz.pie|

## Examples: from REST endpoints to GraphQL queries/mutations [#from-rest-to-mutation]

One of the main benefits of NerdGraph being a GraphQL-format API is that it provides a complete and understandable description of the APIs' data. By using the [NerdGraph API explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer), you can discover GraphQL types and fields, along with a brief explanation.

We want to facilitate your migration from the [Insights API](/docs/apis/insights-apis/insights-dashboard-api/) to the new New Relic One dashboards API. Find below some examples that illustrate how the old REST endpoints map to the new GraphQL queries or mutations.

### List (GET) -> entitySearch query [#entitysearch]

Dashboards in New Relic One embrace the concept of entity. They are now another entity in New Relic’s entity ecosystem.

Try it out using the [NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="list-all-dashboards"
    title="List all dashboard entities you have access to"
  >
    ```
      {
        actor {
          entitySearch(queryBuilder: {type: DASHBOARD}) {
            results {
              entities {
                ... on DashboardEntityOutline {
                  guid
                  name
                  accountId
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="list-dashboards-by-name"
    title="List all dashboards by name"
  >
    ```
      {
        actor {
          entitySearch(queryBuilder: {name: "<var>My dashboard</var>"}) {
            results {
              entities {
                ... on DashboardEntityOutline {
                  guid
                  name
                  accountId
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="list-dashboards-by-email"
    title="List all dashboards by creator’s email"
  >
    ```
      {
        actor {
          entitySearch(queryBuilder: {type: DASHBOARD, tags: {key: "<var>createdBy</var>", value: "<var>email@domain.com</var>"}}) {
            results {
              entities {
                ... on DashboardEntityOutline {
                  guid
                  name
                  accountId
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="list-dashboards-by-user-id"
    title="List all dashboards by creator’s user id"
  >
    ```
      {
        actor {
          entitySearch(query: "type ='<var>DASHBOARD</var>' and ownerId = '<var>2357322</var>'") {
            results {
              entities {
                ... on DashboardEntityOutline {
                  guid
                  name
                  accountId
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Show (GET) -> entity query [#entityquery]

In order to get information on a dashboard, all you need is to provide its unique entity identifier or entity guid. Then you can access all the dashboard properties that you are interested in by adding them in the GraphQL query.

Try it out using the [NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="get-dashboard"
    title="Get dashboard info given its entity guid"
  >
    ```
      {
        actor {
          entity(guid: "<var>MY_DASHBOARD_GUID</var>") {
            ... on DashboardEntity {
              guid
              accountId
              name
              createdAt
              updatedAt
              permissions
              description
              owner { email userId }
              pages {
                guid
                name
                createdAt
                updatedAt
                description
                owner { email userId }
                widgets {
                  id
                  visualization { id }
                  title
                  layout { row column height width }
                  rawConfiguration
                  linkedEntities { guid }
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Create (POST) -> dashboardCreate mutation [#dashboard-create]

Operations that mutate the state of the system are mutations in GraphQL APIs. You can create a dashboard by providing the required input for the `dashboardCreate` mutation. Although GraphQL APIs aim to be self-explanatory, Nerdgraph docs can help you with some information about the fields, like the doc about [how to build dashboard widgets](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/create-widgets-dashboards-api).

Try it out using the [NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="create-dashboard"
    title="Create dashboard with two pages and two widgets per page"
  >
    ```
      mutation {
        dashboardCreate(accountId: <var>1</var>, dashboard: {
          name: "My awesome dashboard",
          permissions: PUBLIC_READ_WRITE,
          pages: [{
            name: "My first page",
            widgets: [{
              visualization: { id: "viz.markdown" },
              title: "My markdown widget",
              layout: {
                row: 1,
                column: 1,
                width: 4,
                height: 3
              },
              rawConfiguration: {
                text: "#My markdown"
              }
            }, {
              visualization: { id: "viz.line" },
              title: "My line widget",
              layout: {
                row: 1,
                column: 5,
                width: 4,
                height: 3
              },
              rawConfiguration: {
                nrqlQueries: [{
                  accountId: 1,
                  query: "SELECT count(*) FROM Transaction FACET appName TIMESERIES"
                }]
              }
            }]
          }, {
            name: "My second page",
            widgets: [{
              visualization: { id: "viz.billboard" },
              title: "My billboard widget with thresholds",
              layout: {
                row: 1,
                column: 1,
                width: 4,
                height: 3
              },
              rawConfiguration: {
                nrqlQueries: [{
                  accountId: 1,
                  query: "SELECT count(*) FROM Transaction"
                }],
                thresholds: [{
                  alertSeverity: WARNING,
                  value: 650
                }, {
                  alertSeverity: CRITICAL,
                  value: 1500
                }]
              }
            }, {
              visualization: { id: "viz.table" },
              title: "My table widget",
              layout: {
                row: 1,
                column: 5,
                width: 4,
                height: 3
              },
              rawConfiguration: {
                nrqlQueries: [{
                  query: "SELECT * FROM Transaction",
                  accountId: 1
                }]
              }
            }]
          }]
        }) {
          errors {
            description
            type
          }
          entityResult {
            guid
            accountId
            name
            createdAt
            updatedAt
            permissions
            description
            owner { email userId }
            pages {
              guid
              name
              createdAt
              updatedAt
              description
              owner { email userId }
              widgets {
                id
                visualization { id }
                title
                layout { row column height width }
                rawConfiguration
                linkedEntities { guid }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Update (PUT) -> dashboardUpdate mutation [#dashboard-update]

The `dashboardUpdate` mutation allows you to update an existing dashboard by providing the existing dashboard guid and the new configuration. Similarly to creating a dashboard, the mutation tries to be self-explanatory, but you can look up the doc about [how to build dashboard widgets](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/create-widgets-dashboards-api).

Try it out using the [NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="update-dashboard"
    title="Update previously created dashboard to 1 page and 1 widget per page"
  >
    ```
      mutation {
        dashboardUpdate(guid: "<var>MY_DASHBOARD_GUID</var>" dashboard: {
          name: "My awesome dashboard",
          permissions: PUBLIC_READ_WRITE,
          pages: [{
            name: "My first page",
            widgets: [{
              visualization: { id: "viz.line" },
              title: "My line widget",
              layout: {
                row: 1,
                column: 1,
                width: 4,
                height: 3
              },
              rawConfiguration: {
                nrqlQueries: [{
                  accountId: 1,
                  query: "SELECT count(*) FROM Transaction FACET appName TIMESERIES"
                }]
              }
            }]
          }, {
            name: "My second page",
            widgets: [{
              visualization: { id: "viz.table" },
              title: "My table widget",
              layout: {
                row: 1,
                column: 1,
                width: 4,
                height: 3
              },
              rawConfiguration: {
                nrqlQueries: [{
                  query: "SELECT * FROM Transaction",
                  accountId: 1
                }]
              }
            }]
          }]
        }) {
          errors {
            description
            type
          }
          entityResult {
            guid
            accountId
            name
            createdAt
            updatedAt
            permissions
            description
            owner { email userId }
            pages {
              guid
              name
              createdAt
              updatedAt
              description
              owner { email userId }
              widgets {
                id
                visualization { id }
                title
                layout { row column height width }
                rawConfiguration
                linkedEntities { guid }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Delete (DELETE) -> dashboardDelete mutation [#dashboard-delete]

The `dashboardDelete` mutation allows you to delete an existing dashboard by providing its entity guid.

Try it out using the [NerdGraph GraphiQL explorer](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/get-started/introduction-new-relic-nerdgraph#explorer).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="delete-dashboard"
    title="Delete previously created dashboard"
  >
    ```
      mutation {
        dashboardDelete(guid:"<var>MY_DASHBOARD_GUID</var>") {
          status
          errors {
            type
            description
          }
        }
      }
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>
