src/content/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring.mdx, before:

---
title: Set up network flow data monitoring
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Network Performance Monitoring
  - Installation
  - Setup
  - NPM
metaDescription: Set up network flow data monitoring.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/kentik-network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring
---

Set up your network devices so they send network data to New Relic One.

## Prerequisites [#prerequisites]

### New Relic One account prerequisites [#prerequisites-NR]

- A New Relic account. Don't have one? [Sign up for free!](https://newrelic.com/signup) No credit card required.
- A **New Relic account ID**. Read how to [find your account ID](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-setup/account-id/).
- A **New Relic license key**. Read how to [generate a new License key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key).

### Linux host prerequisites [#prerequisites-host]

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) installed in a Linux host.
- SSH access to the Docker host, with the ability to launch new containers.

### Network flow data devices prerequisites [#devices-prerequisites]

- Configured network devices to send flow data to the host running the **ktranslate** docker container. Here's how to configure network flow data collection in some devices:
  - NetFlow data
    - [Palo Alto - PAN-OS](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/8-1/pan-os-admin/monitoring/netflow-monitoring/configure-netflow-exports)
    - [Fortinet Fortigate](https://kb.fortinet.com/kb/documentLink.do?externalID=FD36460)
    - [Cisco - NX-OS](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/switches/datacenter/nexus9000/sw/7-x/system_management/configuration/guide/b_Cisco_Nexus_9000_Series_NX-OS_System_Management_Configuration_Guide_7x/b_Cisco_Nexus_9000_Series_NX-OS_System_Management_Configuration_Guide_7x_chapter_011100.html#task_52D8A0952B06404197D2536B6E33EE80)
    - [Cisco - IOS](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/ios/netflow/configuration/guide/12_2sr/nf_12_2sr_book/cfg_nflow_data_expt.html#wp1087069)
    - [Cisco - Meraki](https://documentation.meraki.com/MX/Monitoring_and_Reporting/NetFlow_Overview)
  - sFlow data
    - [F5 - BIG-IP](https://techdocs.f5.com/en-us/bip-upd-16-0-0-u2/external-monitoring-of-big-ip-systems-implementations/monitoring-big-ip-system-traffic-with-sflow.html#GUID-294498AA-BBF7-4E5A-8AD8-1F778E294EE7)
  - jFlow data
    - [Juniper - Junos](https://www.juniper.net/documentation/us/en/software/junos/flow-monitoring/flow-monitoring.pdf)

### Network security prerequisites [#prerequisites-network]

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: '100px' }}>Direction</th>
      <th>Source</th>
      <th>Destination</th>
      <th>Ports</th>
      <th>Protocol</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Outbound</td>
      <td>Docker host</td>
      <td>
        [ktranslate image on Docker
        Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/kentik/ktranslate)
      </td>
      <td>443</td>
      <td>TCP</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Outbound</td>
      <td>Docker host</td>
      <td>
        [New Relic Event
        API](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-apis/introduction-event-api/#requirements)
        US Endpoint: ``` https://insights-collector.newrelic.com ``` EU
        Endpoint: ``` https://insights-collector.eu01.nr-data.net ```
      </td>
      <td>443</td>
      <td>TCP</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Outbound</td>
      <td>Docker host</td>
      <td>
        [New Relic Log
        API](/docs/logs/log-management/log-api/introduction-log-api/#endpoint)
        US Endpoint: ``` https://log-api.newrelic.com ``` EU Endpoint: ```
        https://log-api.eu.newrelic.com ```
      </td>
      <td>443</td>
      <td>TCP</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Inbound</td>
      <td>Source devices for network flow data</td>
      <td>Docker host</td>
      <td>9995 (default)</td>
      <td>UDP</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Supported types of network flow data [#supported-types-of-network-flow-data]

NPM flow monitoring supports the four primary types of network flow data and their derivatives. When running the **ktranslate** container, you will specify which major type you want to monitor using the `-nf.source` option.

<Callout variant="important">
The **ktranslate** container only supports monitoring one type of network flow data type at a time. If you want to monitor several types, each will require a container.

IPFIX and NetFlow v9 can be sent to the same container, but we recommend running a separate container as a best practice.

</Callout>

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: '300px' }}>Network flow data type</th>
      <th>`-nf.source` value</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>IPFIX</td>
      <td>`ipfix`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>NetFlow v5</td>
      <td>`netflow5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>NetFlow v9</td>
      <td>`netflow9`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>sFlow</td>
      <td>`sflow`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>AppFlow</td>
      <td>`netflow5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Argus</td>
      <td>`netflow5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>cflowd</td>
      <td>`netflow5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>J-Flow</td>
      <td>`netflow5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>NetStream</td>
      <td>`netflow5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>RFlow</td>
      <td>`netflow5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Cisco NSEL</td>
      <td>`netflow9`</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Scaling network flow collection [#scaling-network-flow-collection]

When planning your strategy for collecting network flows at scale, New Relic recommends 1 CPU per 2000 flows-per-second (120,000 flows-per-minute). Deciding whether to run more small containers to distribute load or fewer large containers to consolidate management is a matter of personal preference.

## Set up network flow data monitoring in New Relic One [#setup-network-flow-monitoring]

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)** and click **Add more data**.
2. Scroll down until you see **Network performance monitoring** and click **Network Flows**.
3. Follow the steps in New Relic One.
   ![Network Flows guided setup](./images/network-flows-guided-install.png 'Network Flows guided setup')
   {' '}
   <figcaption>
     **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)** > **Add more data** >
     **Network performance monitoring** > **Network Flows** to set up network
     flow data monitoring.
   </figcaption>
4. To get better visibility into your network device performance, [set up SNMP data monitoring](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/snmp-performance-monitoring).
5. [Visualize your network performance data in New Relic](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/monitoring-network-data/visualize-network-data).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="manual-setup"
    title="Manual setup"
  >
  If you prefer to do the setup manually, proceed with the following steps.

1. In your local machine, from a Linux host with Docker installed, download the **ktranslate** image from [dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/) by running


    ```shell
    docker pull kentik/ktranslate:v2
    ```

2. Copy the `snmp-base.yaml` file to the local `$HOME` directory of your Docker user, and discard the container by running


    ```shell
    cd .
    id=$(docker create kentik/ktranslate:v2)
    docker cp $id:/etc/ktranslate/snmp-base.yaml .
    docker rm -v $id
    ```

3. In the `snmp-base.yaml` file, add your network flow devices inside the `devices` key with the following structure:


    ```yaml
    devices:
      flowDevice:
        device_name: edge-router
        device_ip: 10.10.1.254
        flow_only: true
        # Optional user tags
        user_tags:
          owning_team: net_eng
          environment: production
    ```

{' '}
<Callout variant="tip">
  If you're already monitoring SNMP data devices that send network flow data,
  you don't need to add them in your `snmp-base.yaml` file a second time.
</Callout>

4. Run `ktranslate` to listen for network flows by running:

{' '}
<Callout variant="tip">
  Add your New Relic license key and your account ID in the `$NR_LICENSE_KEY`
  and `$NR_ACCOUNT_ID` variables respectively.
</Callout>

    ```shell
    docker run -d --name ktranslate-sflow --restart unless-stopped --net=host \
    -v `pwd`/snmp-base.yaml:/snmp-base.yaml \
    -e NEW_RELIC_API_KEY=$NR_LICENSE_KEY \
    kentik/ktranslate:v2 \
      -snmp /snmp-base.yaml \
      -nr_account_id=$NR_ACCOUNT_ID \
      -metrics=jchf \
      -log_level=info \
      -tee_logs=true \
      -flow_only=true \
      -nf.source=sflow \
      nr1.flow
      ## If your account is located in Europe, you need to add the following option   before the nr1.flow line
      ## -nr_region=EU \
    ```

{' '}
<Callout variant="tip">
  This command assumes collection of `sflow` data. If you are collecting other
  flow types, you should change the suffix in the `--name` flag for the
  container and update the `-nf.source` argument as necessary
</Callout>

5. To get better visibility into your network device performance, [set up SNMP data monitoring](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/snmp-performance-monitoring).
6. [Visualize your network performance data in New Relic](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/monitoring-network-data/visualize-network-data).
     </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

Commit message:

Flows - Adding -nr_region=GOV for FedRAMP

src/content/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring.mdx, after:

---
title: Set up network flow data monitoring
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Network Performance Monitoring
  - Installation
  - Setup
  - NPM
metaDescription: Set up network flow data monitoring.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/kentik-network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring
---

Set up your network devices so they send network data to New Relic One.

## Prerequisites [#prerequisites]

### New Relic One account prerequisites [#prerequisites-NR]

- A New Relic account. Don't have one? [Sign up for free!](https://newrelic.com/signup) No credit card required.
- A **New Relic account ID**. Read how to [find your account ID](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-setup/account-id/).
- A **New Relic license key**. Read how to [generate a new License key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key).

### Linux host prerequisites [#prerequisites-host]

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) installed in a Linux host.
- SSH access to the Docker host, with the ability to launch new containers.

### Network flow data devices prerequisites [#devices-prerequisites]

- Configured network devices to send flow data to the host running the **ktranslate** docker container. Here's how to configure network flow data collection in some devices:
  - NetFlow data
    - [Palo Alto - PAN-OS](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/8-1/pan-os-admin/monitoring/netflow-monitoring/configure-netflow-exports)
    - [Fortinet Fortigate](https://kb.fortinet.com/kb/documentLink.do?externalID=FD36460)
    - [Cisco - NX-OS](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/switches/datacenter/nexus9000/sw/7-x/system_management/configuration/guide/b_Cisco_Nexus_9000_Series_NX-OS_System_Management_Configuration_Guide_7x/b_Cisco_Nexus_9000_Series_NX-OS_System_Management_Configuration_Guide_7x_chapter_011100.html#task_52D8A0952B06404197D2536B6E33EE80)
    - [Cisco - IOS](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/ios/netflow/configuration/guide/12_2sr/nf_12_2sr_book/cfg_nflow_data_expt.html#wp1087069)
    - [Cisco - Meraki](https://documentation.meraki.com/MX/Monitoring_and_Reporting/NetFlow_Overview)
  - sFlow data
    - [F5 - BIG-IP](https://techdocs.f5.com/en-us/bip-upd-16-0-0-u2/external-monitoring-of-big-ip-systems-implementations/monitoring-big-ip-system-traffic-with-sflow.html#GUID-294498AA-BBF7-4E5A-8AD8-1F778E294EE7)
  - jFlow data
    - [Juniper - Junos](https://www.juniper.net/documentation/us/en/software/junos/flow-monitoring/flow-monitoring.pdf)

### Network security prerequisites [#prerequisites-network]

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: '100px' }}>Direction</th>
      <th>Source</th>
      <th>Destination</th>
      <th>Ports</th>
      <th>Protocol</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Outbound</td>
      <td>Docker host</td>
      <td>
        [ktranslate image on Docker
        Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/kentik/ktranslate)
      </td>
      <td>443</td>
      <td>TCP</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Outbound</td>
      <td>Docker host</td>
      <td>
        [New Relic Event
        API](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/ingest-apis/introduction-event-api/#requirements)
        US Endpoint: ``` https://insights-collector.newrelic.com ``` EU
        Endpoint: ``` https://insights-collector.eu01.nr-data.net ```
      </td>
      <td>443</td>
      <td>TCP</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Outbound</td>
      <td>Docker host</td>
      <td>
        [New Relic Log
        API](/docs/logs/log-management/log-api/introduction-log-api/#endpoint)
        US Endpoint: ``` https://log-api.newrelic.com ``` EU Endpoint: ```
        https://log-api.eu.newrelic.com ```
      </td>
      <td>443</td>
      <td>TCP</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Inbound</td>
      <td>Source devices for network flow data</td>
      <td>Docker host</td>
      <td>9995 (default)</td>
      <td>UDP</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Supported types of network flow data [#supported-types-of-network-flow-data]

NPM flow monitoring supports the four primary types of network flow data and their derivatives. When running the **ktranslate** container, you will specify which major type you want to monitor using the `-nf.source` option.

<Callout variant="important">
The **ktranslate** container only supports monitoring one type of network flow data type at a time. If you want to monitor several types, each will require a container.

IPFIX and NetFlow v9 can be sent to the same container, but we recommend running a separate container as a best practice.

</Callout>

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: '300px' }}>Network flow data type</th>
      <th>`-nf.source` value</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>IPFIX</td>
      <td>`ipfix`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>NetFlow v5</td>
      <td>`netflow5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>NetFlow v9</td>
      <td>`netflow9`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>sFlow</td>
      <td>`sflow`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>AppFlow</td>
      <td>`netflow5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Argus</td>
      <td>`netflow5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>cflowd</td>
      <td>`netflow5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>J-Flow</td>
      <td>`netflow5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>NetStream</td>
      <td>`netflow5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>RFlow</td>
      <td>`netflow5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Cisco NSEL</td>
      <td>`netflow9`</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Scaling network flow collection [#scaling-network-flow-collection]

When planning your strategy for collecting network flows at scale, New Relic recommends 1 CPU per 2000 flows-per-second (120,000 flows-per-minute). Deciding whether to run more small containers to distribute load or fewer large containers to consolidate management is a matter of personal preference.

## Set up network flow data monitoring in New Relic One [#setup-network-flow-monitoring]

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)** and click **Add more data**.
2. Scroll down until you see **Network performance monitoring** and click **Network Flows**.
3. Follow the steps in New Relic One.
   ![Network Flows guided setup](./images/network-flows-guided-install.png 'Network Flows guided setup')
   {' '}
   <figcaption>
     **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)** > **Add more data** >
     **Network performance monitoring** > **Network Flows** to set up network
     flow data monitoring.
   </figcaption>
4. To get better visibility into your network device performance, [set up SNMP data monitoring](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/snmp-performance-monitoring).
5. [Visualize your network performance data in New Relic](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/monitoring-network-data/visualize-network-data).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="manual-setup"
    title="Manual setup"
  >
  If you prefer to do the setup manually, proceed with the following steps.

1. In your local machine, from a Linux host with Docker installed, download the **ktranslate** image from [dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/) by running


    ```shell
    docker pull kentik/ktranslate:v2
    ```

2. Copy the `snmp-base.yaml` file to the local `$HOME` directory of your Docker user, and discard the container by running


    ```shell
    cd .
    id=$(docker create kentik/ktranslate:v2)
    docker cp $id:/etc/ktranslate/snmp-base.yaml .
    docker rm -v $id
    ```

3. In the `snmp-base.yaml` file, add your network flow devices inside the `devices` key with the following structure:


    ```yaml
    devices:
      flowDevice:
        device_name: edge-router
        device_ip: 10.10.1.254
        flow_only: true
        # Optional user tags
        user_tags:
          owning_team: net_eng
          environment: production
    ```

{' '}
<Callout variant="tip">
  If you're already monitoring SNMP data devices that send network flow data,
  you don't need to add them in your `snmp-base.yaml` file a second time.
</Callout>

4. Run `ktranslate` to listen for network flows by running:

{' '}
<Callout variant="tip">
  Add your New Relic license key and your account ID in the `$NR_LICENSE_KEY`
  and `$NR_ACCOUNT_ID` variables respectively.
</Callout>

    ```shell
    docker run -d --name ktranslate-sflow --restart unless-stopped --net=host \
    -v `pwd`/snmp-base.yaml:/snmp-base.yaml \
    -e NEW_RELIC_API_KEY=$NR_LICENSE_KEY \
    kentik/ktranslate:v2 \
      -snmp /snmp-base.yaml \
      -nr_account_id=$NR_ACCOUNT_ID \
      -metrics=jchf \
      -log_level=info \
      -tee_logs=true \
      -flow_only=true \
      -nf.source=sflow \
      nr1.flow
      ## If your account is located in Europe, add the following option before the nr1.flow line
      ## -nr_region=EU \
      ## FedRAMP customers need to add the following flag to use the FedRAMP Authorized endpoints
      ## -nr_region=GOV \
    ```

{' '}
<Callout variant="tip">
  This command assumes collection of `sflow` data. If you are collecting other
  flow types, you should change the suffix in the `--name` flag for the
  container and update the `-nf.source` argument as necessary
</Callout>

5. To get better visibility into your network device performance, [set up SNMP data monitoring](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/snmp-performance-monitoring).
6. [Visualize your network performance data in New Relic](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/monitoring-network-data/visualize-network-data).
     </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>
