src/content/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/snmp-performance-monitoring.mdx, before:

---
title: Set up SNMP data monitoring
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Network performance monitoring
  - Installation
  - Setup
metaDescription: Set up SNMP data monitoring.
---

Set up your network devices so they send network data to New Relic One.

## Prerequisites [#prerequisites]

### New Relic One account prerequisites [#prerequisites-NR]

- A New Relic account. Don't have one? [Sign up for free!](https://newrelic.com/signup) No credit card required.
- A **New Relic account ID**. Read how to [find your account ID](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-setup/account-id/).
- A **New Relic license key**. Read how to [generate a new License key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key).

### Linux host prerequisites [#prerequisites-host]

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) installed in a Linux host.
- SSH access to the Docker host, with the ability to launch new containers.

### SNMP devices prerequisites [#devices-prerequisites]

- Configured network devices for SNMP polling from the **ktranslate** docker container. Some samples of basic SNMP configurations can be found here:
  - Cisco
    - [IOS](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/ios-xml/ios/snmp/configuration/xe-16/snmp-xe-16-book/nm-snmp-cfg-snmp-support.html#GUID-98F0633A-F3BA-4C59-B886-F523099D3AE5)
    - [Meraki](https://documentation.meraki.com/General_Administration/Monitoring_and_Reporting/SNMP_Overview_and_Configuration)
    - [NX-OS](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/switches/datacenter/sw/4_2/nx-os/system_management/configuration/guide/sm_nx_os_cli/sm_9snmp.html#wp1056898)
  - Juniper
    - [Junos OS](https://www.juniper.net/documentation/us/en/software/junos/network-mgmt/topics/topic-map/configuring-basic-snmp.html)
  - Palo Alto
    - [PAN-OS](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/10-1/pan-os-web-interface-help/device/device-setup-operations/enable-snmp-monitoring.html)

## Supported SNMP versions [#supported-snmp-versions]

Our NPM container supports all major versions of SNMP (v1, v2c, and v3). Additionally, SNMP v3 has support for the following authentication and privacy settings:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: '300px' }}>Setting</th>
      <th>Protocol</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Authentication</td>
      <td>`NoAuth`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Authentication</td>
      <td>`MD5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Authentication</td>
      <td>`SHA`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Authentication</td>
      <td>`SHA224`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Authentication</td>
      <td>`SHA256`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Authentication</td>
      <td>`SHA384`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Authentication</td>
      <td>`SHA512`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Privacy</td>
      <td>`NoPriv`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Privacy</td>
      <td>`DES`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Privacy</td>
      <td>`AES`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Privacy</td>
      <td>`AES192`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Privacy</td>
      <td>`AES256`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Privacy</td>
      <td>`AES192C`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Privacy</td>
      <td>`AES256C`</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<Callout variant="tip">
  We recommend using read-only community strings/authentication with SNMP
</Callout>

## Set up SNMP data monitoring in New Relic One [#setup-snmp-monitoring]

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)** and click **Add more data**.
2. Scroll down until you see **Network performance monitoring** and click **SNMP**.
3. Follow the steps in New Relic One.
   ![SNMP guided setup](./images/snmp-guided-install.png 'SNMP guided setup')
   {' '}
   <figcaption>
     **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)** > **Add more data** >
     **Network performance monitoring** > **SNMP** to set up SNMP data
     monitoring.
   </figcaption>
4. To get better visibility into how your network is being used, [set up network flow data monitoring](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring).
5. [Visualize your network performance data in New Relic](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/monitoring-network-data/visualize-network-data).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="manual-setup"
    title="Manual setup"
  >
  If you prefer to do the setup manually, proceed with the following steps.

1. On a Linux host with Docker installed, download the **ktranslate** image from [dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/) by running

```shell
docker pull kentik/ktranslate:v2
```

2. Copy the `snmp-base.yaml` file to the local `$HOME` directory of your Docker user, and discard the container by running

```shell
cd .
id=$(docker create kentik/ktranslate:v2)
docker cp $id:/etc/ktranslate/snmp-base.yaml .
docker rm -v $id
```

3. Edit the `snmp-base.yaml` file and define the `discovery.cidrs` and `discovery.default_communities` attributes to appropriate values for your network.

{' '}
<Callout variant="tip">
  It's recommended to set `discovery.add_mibs: true` to automate the addition of
  all discovered MIBs into the `global.mibs_enabled` attribute
</Callout>

4. Launch a short-lived container to execute discovery by running

```shell
docker run -ti --name ktranslate-discovery --rm --net=host \
--user `id -u`:`id -g` \
-v `pwd`/snmp-base.yaml:/snmp-base.yaml \
kentik/ktranslate:v2 \
    -snmp /snmp-base.yaml \
    -log_level info \
    -snmp_discovery=true
```

After the discovery run finishes, you should see an output similar to the following:

```shell
>[Info] KTranslate Adding 3 new snmp devices to the config, 0 replaced from 3
# In this example, the discovery run found 3 new SNMP devices.
```

The discovered devices are listed in the `snmp-base.yaml` file's `devices.{}` section. By default, only the `IF-MIB` mib is polled. You can manually add other mibs to the `global.mibs_enabled` attribute if you did not set `discovery.add_mibs: true` before running the discovery.

5. Run `ktranslate` to poll target devices by running:


    <Callout variant="tip">
    Add your New Relic [License key](/docs.newrelic.com/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key) and your account ID in the `$NR_LICENSE_KEY` and `$NR_ACCOUNT_ID` variables respectively.
    </Callout>

    ```shell
    docker run -d --name ktranslate-snmp --restart unless-stopped --net=host \
    -v `pwd`/snmp-base.yaml:/snmp-base.yaml \
    -e NEW_RELIC_API_KEY=$NR_LICENSE_KEY  \
    kentik/ktranslate:v2 \
      -snmp /snmp-base.yaml \
      -nr_account_id=$NR_ACCOUNT_ID \
      -log_level=info \
      -metrics=jchf \
      -tee_logs=true \
      ## If your account is located in Europe, you need to add the following option:
      ## -nr_region=EU
      nr1.snmp
    ```

6. To get better visibility into how your network is being used, [set up network flow data monitoring](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring).

7. [Visualize your network performance data in New Relic](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/monitoring-network-data/visualize-network-data).
     </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

Commit message:

SNMP - Add FedRAMP flag details

src/content/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/snmp-performance-monitoring.mdx, after:

---
title: Set up SNMP data monitoring
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Network performance monitoring
  - Installation
  - Setup
metaDescription: Set up SNMP data monitoring.
---

Set up your network devices so they send network data to New Relic One.

## Prerequisites [#prerequisites]

### New Relic One account prerequisites [#prerequisites-NR]

- A New Relic account. Don't have one? [Sign up for free!](https://newrelic.com/signup) No credit card required.
- A **New Relic account ID**. Read how to [find your account ID](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-setup/account-id/).
- A **New Relic license key**. Read how to [generate a new License key](/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key).

### Linux host prerequisites [#prerequisites-host]

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) installed in a Linux host.
- SSH access to the Docker host, with the ability to launch new containers.

### SNMP devices prerequisites [#devices-prerequisites]

- Configured network devices for SNMP polling from the **ktranslate** docker container. Some samples of basic SNMP configurations can be found here:
  - Cisco
    - [IOS](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/ios-xml/ios/snmp/configuration/xe-16/snmp-xe-16-book/nm-snmp-cfg-snmp-support.html#GUID-98F0633A-F3BA-4C59-B886-F523099D3AE5)
    - [Meraki](https://documentation.meraki.com/General_Administration/Monitoring_and_Reporting/SNMP_Overview_and_Configuration)
    - [NX-OS](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/switches/datacenter/sw/4_2/nx-os/system_management/configuration/guide/sm_nx_os_cli/sm_9snmp.html#wp1056898)
  - Juniper
    - [Junos OS](https://www.juniper.net/documentation/us/en/software/junos/network-mgmt/topics/topic-map/configuring-basic-snmp.html)
  - Palo Alto
    - [PAN-OS](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/pan-os/10-1/pan-os-web-interface-help/device/device-setup-operations/enable-snmp-monitoring.html)

## Supported SNMP versions [#supported-snmp-versions]

Our NPM container supports all major versions of SNMP (v1, v2c, and v3). Additionally, SNMP v3 has support for the following authentication and privacy settings:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: '300px' }}>Setting</th>
      <th>Protocol</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Authentication</td>
      <td>`NoAuth`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Authentication</td>
      <td>`MD5`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Authentication</td>
      <td>`SHA`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Authentication</td>
      <td>`SHA224`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Authentication</td>
      <td>`SHA256`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Authentication</td>
      <td>`SHA384`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Authentication</td>
      <td>`SHA512`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Privacy</td>
      <td>`NoPriv`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Privacy</td>
      <td>`DES`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Privacy</td>
      <td>`AES`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Privacy</td>
      <td>`AES192`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Privacy</td>
      <td>`AES256`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Privacy</td>
      <td>`AES192C`</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Privacy</td>
      <td>`AES256C`</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<Callout variant="tip">
  We recommend using read-only community strings/authentication with SNMP
</Callout>

## Set up SNMP data monitoring in New Relic One [#setup-snmp-monitoring]

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)** and click **Add more data**.
2. Scroll down until you see **Network performance monitoring** and click **SNMP**.
3. Follow the steps in New Relic One.
   ![SNMP guided setup](./images/snmp-guided-install.png 'SNMP guided setup')
   {' '}
   <figcaption>
     **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com)** > **Add more data** >
     **Network performance monitoring** > **SNMP** to set up SNMP data
     monitoring.
   </figcaption>
4. To get better visibility into how your network is being used, [set up network flow data monitoring](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring).
5. [Visualize your network performance data in New Relic](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/monitoring-network-data/visualize-network-data).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="manual-setup"
    title="Manual setup"
  >
  If you prefer to do the setup manually, proceed with the following steps.

1. On a Linux host with Docker installed, download the **ktranslate** image from [dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/) by running

```shell
docker pull kentik/ktranslate:v2
```

2. Copy the `snmp-base.yaml` file to the local `$HOME` directory of your Docker user, and discard the container by running

```shell
cd .
id=$(docker create kentik/ktranslate:v2)
docker cp $id:/etc/ktranslate/snmp-base.yaml .
docker rm -v $id
```

3. Edit the `snmp-base.yaml` file and define the `discovery.cidrs` and `discovery.default_communities` attributes to appropriate values for your network.

{' '}
<Callout variant="tip">
  It's recommended to set `discovery.add_mibs: true` to automate the addition of
  all discovered MIBs into the `global.mibs_enabled` attribute
</Callout>

4. Launch a short-lived container to execute discovery by running

```shell
docker run -ti --name ktranslate-discovery --rm --net=host \
--user `id -u`:`id -g` \
-v `pwd`/snmp-base.yaml:/snmp-base.yaml \
kentik/ktranslate:v2 \
    -snmp /snmp-base.yaml \
    -log_level info \
    -snmp_discovery=true
```

After the discovery run finishes, you should see an output similar to the following:

```shell
>[Info] KTranslate Adding 3 new snmp devices to the config, 0 replaced from 3
# In this example, the discovery run found 3 new SNMP devices.
```

The discovered devices are listed in the `snmp-base.yaml` file's `devices.{}` section. By default, only the `IF-MIB` mib is polled. You can manually add other mibs to the `global.mibs_enabled` attribute if you did not set `discovery.add_mibs: true` before running the discovery.

5. Run `ktranslate` to poll target devices by running:


    <Callout variant="tip">
    Add your New Relic [License key](/docs.newrelic.com/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#ingest-license-key) and your account ID in the `$NR_LICENSE_KEY` and `$NR_ACCOUNT_ID` variables respectively.
    </Callout>

    ```shell
    docker run -d --name ktranslate-snmp --restart unless-stopped --net=host \
    -v `pwd`/snmp-base.yaml:/snmp-base.yaml \
    -e NEW_RELIC_API_KEY=$NR_LICENSE_KEY  \
    kentik/ktranslate:v2 \
      -snmp /snmp-base.yaml \
      -nr_account_id=$NR_ACCOUNT_ID \
      -log_level=info \
      -metrics=jchf \
      -tee_logs=true \
      nr1.snmp
      ## If your account is located in Europe, add the following option before the nr1.snmp line:
      ## -nr_region=EU \
      ## FedRAMP customers need to add the following flag before the nr1.snmp line to use the FedRAMP Authorized endpoints
      ## -nr_region=GOV \
    ```

6. To get better visibility into how your network is being used, [set up network flow data monitoring](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/setup-performance-monitoring/network-flow-monitoring).

7. [Visualize your network performance data in New Relic](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/monitoring-network-data/visualize-network-data).
     </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>
