src/content/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/windows-services-integration.mdx, before:

---
title: Windows services integration
metaDescription: An introduction to New Relic's open-source Windows services integration.
redirects:
 - /docs/windows-services-integration
---

<Callout title="BETA FEATURE">
This feature is currently in open beta and only applies to the [latest version](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-winservices/releases/tag/v0.3.0-beta) released in September 2021. Check [our post](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/introducing-new-open-beta-version-of-the-windows-services-integration/160162) for more details.
</Callout>

New Relic's Windows services integration collects data about the services running on your Windows hosts and sends it to our platform. You can check the state and start mode of each service, find out which hosts are running a service, set up alerts for services, and more.

Our integration is bundled with the [Windows infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure/windows-installation/install-infrastructure-windows-server-using-msi-installer). If you're monitoring Windows hosts on New Relic, you only need to enable the integration to get Windows services data into our platform.

## Why it matters [#value]

[Windows services](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/windows-services/introduction-to-windows-service-applications) are the Windows equivalent of daemons in Unix and Linux: long-running executables that can be started, stopped, paused, and restarted without a graphical interface. Knowing which services are enabled, or their state or health, is essential when monitoring Windows infrastructure.

With our Windows services integration you can:

* Check all your Windows services, their [state](#state) (running, stopped, etc.) and [start mode](#startmode) (auto, manual, etc.), including service [metadata](#metadata).
* See which hosts are running specific Windows services.
* [Set alerts](#set-alerts) based on any Windows services that you are monitoring using New Relic.
* Create [dashboards](/docs/dashboards/new-relic-one-dashboards/get-started/introduction-new-relic-one-dashboards) to track your Windows services.

![New Relic One - Windows services integration - Metric data](./images/nr1-ohi-windows-services-metric.png "New Relic One - Windows services integration - Metric data")

<figcaption>
  **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Dashboards**: You can use the Windows services integration metrics to create tables for your services.
</figcaption>

## Compatibility and requirements [#requirements]

Our integration is compatible with all Windows versions [supported](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/getting-started/compatibility-requirements-new-relic-infrastructure) by the New Relic agent.

You must have the [New Relic infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure) **version 1.12.1 or higher** installed on a supported host. The x86 Windows versions are not yet supported.

## Install and activate [#install]

To install the Windows services integration:

1. Change the directory to the integrations folder:

   ```
   cd C:\Program Files\New Relic\newrelic-infra\integrations.d\
   ```
2. Copy of the sample configuration file:

   ```
   copy winservices-config.yml.sample winservices-config.yml
   ```
3. Edit the `winservices-config.yml` file as described in the [configuration settings](#config) and save it.

### Update your integration [#update]

The Windows services integration is bundled with the infrastructure monitoring agent. To update the integration, [update the agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure/update-or-uninstall/update-infrastructure-agent#update) to the latest version.

## Configure the integration [#config]

To enable the integration, edit and save the `winservices-config.yml`:

* Uncomment `exporter_bind_address:` and `exporter_bind_port:`
* Add the name of the services you want to monitor to `include_matching_entities:`

By default, no service is included. To include and filter services, you must edit `include_matching_entities:`.

Also, the configuration option [`inventory_source`](/docs/integrations/integrations-sdk/file-specifications/host-integrations-newer-configuration-format#inventory_source) is not compatible with the integration.

Here's an example of the Windows services integration configuration:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="example"
    title="winservices-config.yml"
  >
    ```
    integrations:
      - name: com.newrelic.winservices
        exec:
          - C:\Program Files\New Relic\newrelic-infra\newrelic-integrations\nri-winservices.exe
        config:
          # IP address and port used by the Prometheus exporter to bind the server.
          #
          # exporter_bind_address: 127.0.0.1
          # exporter_bind_port: 9182

          # To include services, create a list of filters to be applied to the
          # service names. Services that find a match with any of the matching
          # lists are included. By default, no service is included.
          #
          # Currently, only windowsService.name metadata is supported for filtering.
          # Prepend "regex" to indicate that the pattern is a regular expression.
          #
          include_matching_entities:
            windowsService.name:
              # - regex "^*$"
              # - "ServiceNameToBeIncluded"

          # Time between consecutive metric collection of the integration.
          # It must be a number followed by a time unit (s, m or h), without spaces.
          #
          scrape_interval: 30s

        # Timeout used by the agent to restart the integration if no heartbeats are
        # sent from the integration. Heartbeats are sent every 5s, so this timeout
        # shouldn't be less than that.
        #
        timeout: 10s

        # Since this is a long-running integration, interval is ignored. To
        # configure the interval period for collecting and sending data, edit
        # the scrape_interval parameter.
        #
        # interval:
    ```

    For more information, see our documentation about the [general structure of on-host integration configurations](/docs/integrations/integrations-sdk/file-specifications/host-integration-configuration-overview).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Set up an alert [#set-alerts]

You can [create Windows services alerts using NRQL conditions](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/defining-conditions/create-alert-conditions-nrql-queries) to get notified about state changes of the services you wish to monitor. Below are two examples of alert conditions that use Windows services data:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="service"
    title="Service is not running"
  >
    ```
    SELECT count(*) FROM Metric WHERE metricName = 'windows_service_state' AND state != 'running' AND service_name = 'lfsvc' FACET entity.name
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="start-mode"
    title={<>Start mode is <InlineCode>auto</InlineCode>, but current state is not <InlineCode>running</InlineCode></>}
  >
    ```
    FROM Metric SELECT count(*) WHERE start_mode='auto' AND state!='running' FACET service_name
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## How it works [#process]

To get data from Windows hosts, our Windows services integration uses a reduced version of the [Prometheus exporter for Windows](https://github.com/prometheus-community/windows_exporter), which exposes Prometheus metrics on the port specified in the agent configuration. The integration collects these metrics, transforms them into entities, filters them, and then sent them to New Relic.

![Windows services integration architecture](./images/WindowsServicesOHI.png "Windows services integration architecture")

<figcaption>
  The Windows services integration collects [Service Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/services/service-functions) data using the Windows Prometheus exporter. It then transforms and filters the data before sending it to New Relic.
</figcaption>

## Metric data [#metrics]

The Windows services integration provides the following data:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Metric
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `windows_service_start_mode`
      </td>

      <td>
        Start mode of the service. Possible values are:

        * `boot`
        * `system`
        * `auto`
        * `manual`
        * `disabled`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windows_service_state`
      </td>

      <td>
        State of the service. Possible values are:

        * `stopped`
        * `start pending`
        * `stop pending`
        * `running`
        * `continue pending`
        * `pause pending`
        * `paused`
        * `unknown`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

If you migrate from the old beta, the metric names have changed. The differences are:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Old metric
      </th>

      <th>
        New metric
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.service.startMode`
      </td>
      <td>
        `windows_service_start_mode`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.service.state`
      </td>
      <td>
        `windows_service_state`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.service.status`
      </td>
      <td>
        `has been removed`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Metadata [#metadata]

The Windows services integration sends the following metadata to New Relic:

* `display_name`: Name of the service as viewed in the services snap-in.
* `service_name`: Unique identifier of the service.
* `process_id`: Process identifier of the service.
* `run_as`: Account name under which a service runs. Depending on the service type, the format of the account name may be `DomainName\Username` or `Username@DomainName` (UPN). The value is taken from the `StartName` attribute of the `Win32_Service` class, which can be `NULL` (in that case, the label is reported as an empty string).

  <Callout variant="important">
    If the `StartName` attribute is `NULL`, the service is logged on under the `LocalSystem` account. For kernel or system-level drive, it runs with a default object name created by the I/O system based on the service name, for example, `DWDOM\Admin`.
  </Callout>

If you migrate from the old beta, the metadata names have changed. The differences are:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Old metadata
      </th>

      <th>
        New metadata
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.displayName`
      </td>
      <td>
        `display_name`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.entityName`
      </td>
      <td>
        `entity.name`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.hostname`
      </td>
      <td>
        `hostname`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.name`
      </td>
      <td>
        `service_name`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.processId`
      </td>
      <td>
        `process_id`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.runAs`
      </td>
      <td>
        `run_as`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Source code [#open-source]

The Windows services integration is open source software. That means you can [browse its source code](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-winservices/) and [send improvements](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-winservices/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md), or create your own fork and build it. For more information, see the [README](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-winservices/blob/master/README.md).

Commit message:

Updated Windows Services Example
Added example services for some of the critical services that customers may want to monitor, including MSSQL and IIS.

src/content/docs/integrations/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/windows-services-integration.mdx, after:

---
title: Windows services integration
metaDescription: An introduction to New Relic's open-source Windows services integration.
redirects:
 - /docs/windows-services-integration
---

<Callout title="BETA FEATURE">
This feature is currently in open beta and only applies to the [latest version](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-winservices/releases/tag/v0.3.0-beta) released in September 2021. Check [our post](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/introducing-new-open-beta-version-of-the-windows-services-integration/160162) for more details.
</Callout>

New Relic's Windows services integration collects data about the services running on your Windows hosts and sends it to our platform. You can check the state and start mode of each service, find out which hosts are running a service, set up alerts for services, and more.

Our integration is bundled with the [Windows infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure/windows-installation/install-infrastructure-windows-server-using-msi-installer). If you're monitoring Windows hosts on New Relic, you only need to enable the integration to get Windows services data into our platform.

## Why it matters [#value]

[Windows services](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/windows-services/introduction-to-windows-service-applications) are the Windows equivalent of daemons in Unix and Linux: long-running executables that can be started, stopped, paused, and restarted without a graphical interface. Knowing which services are enabled, or their state or health, is essential when monitoring Windows infrastructure.

With our Windows services integration you can:

* Check all your Windows services, their [state](#state) (running, stopped, etc.) and [start mode](#startmode) (auto, manual, etc.), including service [metadata](#metadata).
* See which hosts are running specific Windows services.
* [Set alerts](#set-alerts) based on any Windows services that you are monitoring using New Relic.
* Create [dashboards](/docs/dashboards/new-relic-one-dashboards/get-started/introduction-new-relic-one-dashboards) to track your Windows services.

![New Relic One - Windows services integration - Metric data](./images/nr1-ohi-windows-services-metric.png "New Relic One - Windows services integration - Metric data")

<figcaption>
  **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Dashboards**: You can use the Windows services integration metrics to create tables for your services.
</figcaption>

## Compatibility and requirements [#requirements]

Our integration is compatible with all Windows versions [supported](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/getting-started/compatibility-requirements-new-relic-infrastructure) by the New Relic agent.

You must have the [New Relic infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure) **version 1.12.1 or higher** installed on a supported host. The x86 Windows versions are not yet supported.

## Install and activate [#install]

To install the Windows services integration:

1. Change the directory to the integrations folder:

   ```
   cd C:\Program Files\New Relic\newrelic-infra\integrations.d\
   ```
2. Copy of the sample configuration file:

   ```
   copy winservices-config.yml.sample winservices-config.yml
   ```
3. Edit the `winservices-config.yml` file as described in the [configuration settings](#config) and save it.

### Update your integration [#update]

The Windows services integration is bundled with the infrastructure monitoring agent. To update the integration, [update the agent](/docs/infrastructure/install-configure-manage-infrastructure/update-or-uninstall/update-infrastructure-agent#update) to the latest version.

## Configure the integration [#config]

To enable the integration, edit and save the `winservices-config.yml`:

* Uncomment `exporter_bind_address:` and `exporter_bind_port:`
* Add the name of the services you want to monitor to `include_matching_entities:`

By default, no service is included. To include and filter services, you must edit `include_matching_entities:`.

Also, the configuration option [`inventory_source`](/docs/integrations/integrations-sdk/file-specifications/host-integrations-newer-configuration-format#inventory_source) is not compatible with the integration.

Here's an example of the Windows services integration configuration:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="example"
    title="winservices-config.yml"
  >
    ```
    integrations:
      - name: com.newrelic.winservices
        exec:
          - C:\Program Files\New Relic\newrelic-infra\newrelic-integrations\nri-winservices.exe
        config:
          # IP address and port used by the Prometheus exporter to bind the server.
          #
          # exporter_bind_address: 127.0.0.1
          # exporter_bind_port: 9182

          # To include services, create a list of filters to be applied to the
          # service names. Services that find a match with any of the matching
          # lists are included. By default, no service is included.
          #
          # Currently, only windowsService.name metadata is supported for filtering.
          # Prepend "regex" to indicate that the pattern is a regular expression.
          # Example services below are for some of the common services running on a Windows machine.
          #
          include_matching_entities:
            windowsService.name:
              # - regex "^*$"
              # - "ServiceNameToBeIncluded"
              # - "newrelic-infra"
              # - "MSSQLSERVER"
              # - "IISADMIN"
              # - "w3svc"

          # Time between consecutive metric collection of the integration.
          # It must be a number followed by a time unit (s, m or h), without spaces.
          #
          scrape_interval: 30s

        # Timeout used by the agent to restart the integration if no heartbeats are
        # sent from the integration. Heartbeats are sent every 5s, so this timeout
        # shouldn't be less than that.
        #
        timeout: 10s

        # Since this is a long-running integration, interval is ignored. To
        # configure the interval period for collecting and sending data, edit
        # the scrape_interval parameter.
        #
        # interval:
    ```

    For more information, see our documentation about the [general structure of on-host integration configurations](/docs/integrations/integrations-sdk/file-specifications/host-integration-configuration-overview).
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## Set up an alert [#set-alerts]

You can [create Windows services alerts using NRQL conditions](/docs/alerts/new-relic-alerts/defining-conditions/create-alert-conditions-nrql-queries) to get notified about state changes of the services you wish to monitor. Below are two examples of alert conditions that use Windows services data:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="service"
    title="Service is not running"
  >
    ```
    SELECT count(*) FROM Metric WHERE metricName = 'windows_service_state' AND state != 'running' AND service_name = 'lfsvc' FACET entity.name
    ```
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="start-mode"
    title={<>Start mode is <InlineCode>auto</InlineCode>, but current state is not <InlineCode>running</InlineCode></>}
  >
    ```
    FROM Metric SELECT count(*) WHERE start_mode='auto' AND state!='running' FACET service_name
    ```
  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

## How it works [#process]

To get data from Windows hosts, our Windows services integration uses a reduced version of the [Prometheus exporter for Windows](https://github.com/prometheus-community/windows_exporter), which exposes Prometheus metrics on the port specified in the agent configuration. The integration collects these metrics, transforms them into entities, filters them, and then sent them to New Relic.

![Windows services integration architecture](./images/WindowsServicesOHI.png "Windows services integration architecture")

<figcaption>
  The Windows services integration collects [Service Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/services/service-functions) data using the Windows Prometheus exporter. It then transforms and filters the data before sending it to New Relic.
</figcaption>

## Metric data [#metrics]

The Windows services integration provides the following data:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Metric
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `windows_service_start_mode`
      </td>

      <td>
        Start mode of the service. Possible values are:

        * `boot`
        * `system`
        * `auto`
        * `manual`
        * `disabled`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windows_service_state`
      </td>

      <td>
        State of the service. Possible values are:

        * `stopped`
        * `start pending`
        * `stop pending`
        * `running`
        * `continue pending`
        * `pause pending`
        * `paused`
        * `unknown`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

If you migrate from the old beta, the metric names have changed. The differences are:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Old metric
      </th>

      <th>
        New metric
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.service.startMode`
      </td>
      <td>
        `windows_service_start_mode`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.service.state`
      </td>
      <td>
        `windows_service_state`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.service.status`
      </td>
      <td>
        `has been removed`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Metadata [#metadata]

The Windows services integration sends the following metadata to New Relic:

* `display_name`: Name of the service as viewed in the services snap-in.
* `service_name`: Unique identifier of the service.
* `process_id`: Process identifier of the service.
* `run_as`: Account name under which a service runs. Depending on the service type, the format of the account name may be `DomainName\Username` or `Username@DomainName` (UPN). The value is taken from the `StartName` attribute of the `Win32_Service` class, which can be `NULL` (in that case, the label is reported as an empty string).

  <Callout variant="important">
    If the `StartName` attribute is `NULL`, the service is logged on under the `LocalSystem` account. For kernel or system-level drive, it runs with a default object name created by the I/O system based on the service name, for example, `DWDOM\Admin`.
  </Callout>

If you migrate from the old beta, the metadata names have changed. The differences are:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>
        Old metadata
      </th>

      <th>
        New metadata
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.displayName`
      </td>
      <td>
        `display_name`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.entityName`
      </td>
      <td>
        `entity.name`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.hostname`
      </td>
      <td>
        `hostname`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.name`
      </td>
      <td>
        `service_name`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.processId`
      </td>
      <td>
        `process_id`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `windowsService.runAs`
      </td>
      <td>
        `run_as`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Source code [#open-source]

The Windows services integration is open source software. That means you can [browse its source code](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-winservices/) and [send improvements](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-winservices/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md), or create your own fork and build it. For more information, see the [README](https://github.com/newrelic/nri-winservices/blob/master/README.md).
