src/content/docs/security/security-privacy/compliance/certificates-standards-regulations/iso.mdx, before:

---
title: ISO 27001 standard 
tags:
  - Security
  - Security and Privacy
  - Compliance
metaDescription: Criteria and compliance with annual SOC 2 and FedRAMP audits by New Relic services.
---

The International Organization for Standardization 27001 Standard (ISO 27001) is an information security standard that ensures office sites, development centers, support centers and data centers are securely managed. These certifications run for 3 years (with renewal audits), and have annual touch point audits (surveillance audits).

## Applicable document by service [#applicable-services]

<Callout variant="caution">
Not all [New Relic One](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/get-started/introduction-new-relic-one/) services are in compliance with this program. For non-compliant services, please see the section of [services not in scope](#not-scope). 
</Callout>

The following applies to the New Relic One platform:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        Document
      </th>

      <th>
        Last Updated
      </th>

      <th>
        Infrastructure
      </th>

      <th>
        Services
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
     <tr>
      <td>
        [ISO 27001:2013 Certificate](https://newrelic.com/security)
      </td>

      <td>
        2021-OCT-04
      </td>

      <td>
        AWS & First Party
      </td> 

      <td>
        New Relic One Platform
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Services not in scope [#not-scope]

The following services are not ISO 27001 certified:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        Last Updated
      </th>

      <th>
        Infrastructure
      </th>

      <th>
        Services
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
     <tr>
      <td>
        N/A
      </td>

      <td>
        GCP
      </td>

      <td>
        AI Ops - Incident Intelligence
      </td> 
    </tr>
    
     <tr>
      <td>
        N/A
      </td>

      <td>
        GCP
      </td>

      <td>
        Log Patterns
      </td> 
    </tr>
    
     <tr>
      <td>
        N/A
      </td>

      <td>
        GCP
      </td>

      <td>
        Pixie: Auto-telemetry with Pixie
      </td> 
    </tr>
    
     <tr>
      <td>
        N/A
      </td>

      <td>
        GCP
      </td>

      <td>
        Pixie: Community Cloud for Pixie 
      </td> 
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

Update iso.mdx with additional info
Adding scope information to the iso page.

src/content/docs/security/security-privacy/compliance/certificates-standards-regulations/iso.mdx, after:

---
title: ISO 27001 standard 
tags:
  - Security
  - Security and Privacy
  - Compliance
metaDescription: Criteria and compliance with annual SOC 2 and FedRAMP audits by New Relic services.
---

The International Organization for Standardization 27001 Standard (ISO 27001) is an information security standard that ensures office sites, development centers, support centers and data centers are securely managed. These certifications run for 3 years (with renewal audits), and have annual touch point audits (surveillance audits). The scope of certification covered the Company’s locations in Portland, Oregon; San Francisco, California; Barcelona, Spain; Dublin, Ireland; Atlanta, Georgia; and London, United Kingdom.

## Applicable document by service [#applicable-services]

<Callout variant="caution">
Not all [New Relic One](/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/get-started/introduction-new-relic-one/) services are in compliance with this program. For non-compliant services, please see the section of [services not in scope](#not-scope). 
</Callout>

The following applies to the New Relic One platform:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        Document
      </th>

      <th>
        Last Updated
      </th>

      <th>
        Infrastructure
      </th>

      <th>
        Services
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
     <tr>
      <td>
        [ISO 27001:2013 Certificate](https://newrelic.com/security)
      </td>

      <td>
        2021-OCT-04
      </td>

      <td>
        AWS & First Party
      </td> 

      <td>
        New Relic One Platform
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Services not in scope [#not-scope]

The following services are not ISO 27001 certified:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        Last Updated
      </th>

      <th>
        Infrastructure
      </th>

      <th>
        Services
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
     <tr>
      <td>
        N/A
      </td>

      <td>
        GCP
      </td>

      <td>
        AI Ops - Incident Intelligence
      </td> 
    </tr>
    
     <tr>
      <td>
        N/A
      </td>

      <td>
        GCP
      </td>

      <td>
        Log Patterns
      </td> 
    </tr>
    
     <tr>
      <td>
        N/A
      </td>

      <td>
        GCP
      </td>

      <td>
        Pixie: Auto-telemetry with Pixie
      </td> 
    </tr>
    
     <tr>
      <td>
        N/A
      </td>

      <td>
        GCP
      </td>

      <td>
        Pixie: Community Cloud for Pixie 
      </td> 
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
