src/content/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-user-models.mdx, before:

---
title: Overview of New Relic user models
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Original accounts and billing
  - Original product-based pricing
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'An explanation of the two New Relic user models. The newest user model was released in 2020.'
redirects:
---

New Relic has two **user models**: an older user model referred to as the **original user model** and a newer one, released in July of 2020, called the **New Relic One user model**. When you log in to New Relic, that user record is on either one or the other of our user models. 

## Find the docs you need [#docs]

The user model you're on affects how you manage your users and their access to roles and accounts ([read details about the differences](#differences)). We have different sets of docs for the user models so it's important for you to find the right one: 

* [Docs for original user model](?) 
* [Docs for New Relic One user model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/introduction-managing-users) 

## Determine your user model [#determine-user-model]

To determine what user model you're on, from the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#account-dropdown) select **User preferences**. If you see the UI below, you're on the New Relic One user model. If you see a different UI with more content displayed, you're on the original user model (see [original user docs](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles)).

![New Relic One user model - user preferences](./images/new-relic-one-user-model-user-preferences.png "new-relic-user-preferences-new-user-model.png")

To determine if you can manage users on the New Relic One user model, see [Manage users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/add-manage-users-groups-roles#where).

The user model is independent of your pricing model. For how user model relates to pricing, see the [Pricing and user model table](#pricing-user-table).

## User model comparison [#differences]

Here's an explanation of the differences between the user models: 

* **New Relic One user model**: this newer, [improved](https://www.newrelic.com/blog/how-to-relic/user-management-and-access-security) user model was released in July 2020. It is the default user model for new New Relic sign ups. Here are the major differences from the original user model:
  * All your accounts and users are contained under a top-level [organization](/docs/new-relic-account-structure). This gives an organization stronger control over managing users and what they can access. One impact of this is that users who work with multiple New Relic organizations may have an email address associated with [multiple logins](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/factors-affecting-access-features-data/#account-access).  
  * Users on this model have a different system for managing permissions and account access. Using [access grants](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts), you assign users access to specific roles on specific accounts. 
* **Original user model**: some aspects of this older model that are different from our newer model:
  * There wasn't as much organization-level control over users. For example, a New Relic user had the ability to access multiple accounts they'd been granted access to using a single login.
  * Users on the original user model have a different [user management system](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/users-roles-original-user-model). 

To learn more about benefits of the new model, see our [blog post about user model changes](https://www.newrelic.com/blog/how-to-relic/user-management-and-access-security) and an [explanation of the new account structure](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-structure/new-relic-account-structure). For impacts and limitations, see [Feature impacts](#limitations).

## Requirements for New Relic One user model 

Here are the factors governing which organizations have users on the newer model: 

* All New Relic organizations that signed up after July 30 2020 have users on this model (and also have the [new pricing model](#pricing-plans)).
* Some older New Relic organizations have had their users migrated to the new model by New Relic or by using the [user migration procedure](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/user-migration/). 
* Partner accounts (resellers, managed service providers), and organizations using the [partnership account structure](/docs/new-relic-partnerships/partner-integration-guide/partner-account-maintenance/partnership-accounts-users-subscriptions), cannot yet migrate their users to the new model. 


## Feature impacts of user model [#limitations]

The new user model offers [many benefits](https://newrelic.com/blog/how-to-relic/user-management-and-access-security). Here are some feature impacts of being on the New Relic One user model that may be not obvious to users accustomed to our previous user model:

* More separation of organizations/accounts: If you have an email address associated with multiple New Relic accounts, this may mean you need to log out and log back in. [Learn more about account access.](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/factors-affecting-access-features-data/#account-access) 
* Adding accounts: [Pro and Enterprise edition](https://newrelic.com/pricing) can have more than one account in their organization. Currently users in these organizations cannot, on their own, add accounts. They must get help from their New Relic account representative. To learn about adding users to accounts, see [Manage users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts). 
* Alerts-related impacts: 
  * Policy actions: For alert policies and conditions, some UI locations display the user that made the last modification. For users on the new model, it will display their user ID and not their user name. For example, a policy might read `Last modified Sep 7, '20 4:26 pm by user 1234567` instead of `by John Doe`. If you have user management permissions, you can determine what user this is by going to the [**User management** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#where). 
  * Notifications: Users on the new model won’t show up as an option when [choosing users to receive alert notifications](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-notifications/notification-channels-control-where-send-alerts/#user). The result of this is that these users will not get [New Relic mobile app push notifications](/docs/mobile-apps/new-relic-mobile-apps/authentication-alerts/alerting-new-relic-mobile-apps/). As a workaround, you can instead use their [email address](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-notifications/notification-channels-control-where-send-alerts/#email) as the notification channel.
* You can't use the REST API to [generate a list of users](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/account-examples-v2/listing-users-your-account/) (only original model users). Instead you'd use the [user management UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#where). 
* Changing account name: These users cannot [change the name of their organization](/docs/accounts/accounts/account-maintenance/change-your-new-relic-account-name/) after it has been created. 

## Transition to new models [#how-to-transition]

Some New Relic organizations on the old models are able to transition to the new models. To learn more about this, see [Transition to new models](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/switch-new-models).

Commit message:

fix(core users): edits to navigation structure

src/content/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-user-models.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction to New Relic user management
tags:
  - Accounts
  - Original accounts and billing
  - Original product-based pricing
translate:
  - jp
metaDescription: 'An introduction to our two user models and how to find the user management docs you need.'
redirects:
---

New Relic has two **user models**: an older user model referred to as the **original user model** and a newer one, released in July of 2020, called the **New Relic One user model**. When you log in to New Relic, that user record is on either one or the other of our user models. 

## Find the docs you need [#docs]

The user model you're on affects how you manage your users and their access to roles and accounts ([read details about the differences](#differences)). We have different sets of docs for the user models so it's important for you to find the right one: 

* [Docs for original user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/users-roles-original-user-model) 
* [Docs for New Relic One user model](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/introduction-managing-users) 

## Manage users in the UI [#manage-users]

How you manage users depends on which [user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models) you're on:

* New Relic One user model: see [Manage users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#where).
* Original user model: from [one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com), click the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#account-dropdown), click **Account settings**, and then click **Users and roles**. For more on user management, see [Original users](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/users-roles-original-user-model/).

Not sure which user model you're on? See [Determine user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#determine-user-model).

## Determine your user model [#determine-user-model]

To determine what user model you're on, from the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary#account-dropdown) select **User preferences**. If you see the UI below, you're on the New Relic One user model. If you see a different UI with more content displayed, you're on the original user model (see [original user docs](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles)).

![New Relic One user model - user preferences](./images/new-relic-one-user-model-user-preferences.png "new-relic-user-preferences-new-user-model.png")

To determine if you can manage users on the New Relic One user model, see [Manage users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/add-manage-users-groups-roles#where).

The user model is independent of your pricing model. For how user model relates to pricing, see the [Pricing and user model table](#pricing-user-table).

## User model comparison [#differences]

Here's an explanation of the differences between the user models: 

* **New Relic One user model**: this newer, [improved](https://www.newrelic.com/blog/how-to-relic/user-management-and-access-security) user model was released in July 2020. It is the default user model for new New Relic sign ups. Here are the major differences from the original user model:
  * All your accounts and users are contained under a top-level [organization](/docs/new-relic-account-structure). This gives an organization stronger control over managing users and what they can access. One impact of this is that users who work with multiple New Relic organizations may have an email address associated with [multiple logins](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/factors-affecting-access-features-data/#account-access).  
  * Users on this model have a different system for managing permissions and account access. Using [access grants](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts), you assign users access to specific roles on specific accounts. 
* **Original user model**: some aspects of this older model that are different from our newer model:
  * There wasn't as much organization-level control over users. For example, a New Relic user had the ability to access multiple accounts they'd been granted access to using a single login.
  * Users on the original user model have a different [user management system](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/users-roles-original-user-model). 

To learn more about benefits of the new model, see our [blog post about user model changes](https://www.newrelic.com/blog/how-to-relic/user-management-and-access-security) and an [explanation of the new account structure](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-structure/new-relic-account-structure). For impacts and limitations, see [Feature impacts](#limitations).

## Requirements for New Relic One user model [#requirements]

Here are the factors governing which organizations have users on the newer model: 

* All New Relic organizations that signed up after July 30 2020 have users on this model (and also have the [new pricing model](#pricing-plans)).
* Some older New Relic organizations have had their users migrated to the new model by New Relic or by using the [user migration procedure](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/user-migration/). 
* Partner accounts (resellers, managed service providers), and organizations using the [partnership account structure](/docs/new-relic-partnerships/partner-integration-guide/partner-account-maintenance/partnership-accounts-users-subscriptions), cannot yet migrate their users to the new model. 

## Feature impacts of user model [#limitations]

The new user model offers [many benefits](https://newrelic.com/blog/how-to-relic/user-management-and-access-security). Here are some feature impacts of being on the New Relic One user model that may be not obvious to users accustomed to our previous user model:

* More separation of organizations/accounts: If you have an email address associated with multiple New Relic accounts, this may mean you need to log out and log back in. [Learn more about account access.](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/general-account-settings/factors-affecting-access-features-data/#account-access) 
* Adding accounts: [Pro and Enterprise edition](https://newrelic.com/pricing) can have more than one account in their organization. Currently users in these organizations cannot, on their own, add accounts. They must get help from their New Relic account representative. To learn about adding users to accounts, see [Manage users](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#understand-concepts). 
* Alerts-related impacts: 
  * Policy actions: For alert policies and conditions, some UI locations display the user that made the last modification. For users on the new model, it will display their user ID and not their user name. For example, a policy might read `Last modified Sep 7, '20 4:26 pm by user 1234567` instead of `by John Doe`. If you have user management permissions, you can determine what user this is by going to the [**User management** UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#where). 
  * Notifications: Users on the new model won’t show up as an option when [choosing users to receive alert notifications](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-notifications/notification-channels-control-where-send-alerts/#user). The result of this is that these users will not get [New Relic mobile app push notifications](/docs/mobile-apps/new-relic-mobile-apps/authentication-alerts/alerting-new-relic-mobile-apps/). As a workaround, you can instead use their [email address](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-notifications/notification-channels-control-where-send-alerts/#email) as the notification channel.
* You can't use the REST API to [generate a list of users](/docs/apis/rest-api-v2/account-examples-v2/listing-users-your-account/) (only original model users). Instead you'd use the [user management UI](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/add-manage-users-groups-roles/#where). 
* Changing account name: These users cannot [change the name of their organization](/docs/accounts/accounts/account-maintenance/change-your-new-relic-account-name/) after it has been created. 

## Transition to new models [#how-to-transition]

Some New Relic organizations on the old models are able to transition to the new models. To learn more about this, see [Transition to new models](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/switch-new-models).
