src/content/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/switch-new-models.mdx, before:

---
title: Switch to new pricing model and new user model
metaDescription: "How to switch to New Relic's newer pricing model and new user model."
redirects: 
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/switch-new-model
---

New Relic has recently implemented a new pricing model and user structure (read an [overview of changes](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/)). Our new models have many benefits: simpler billing, ability to add free users, simplicity of managing users, and more. 

If you're on our [original pricing model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#pricing-plans) or if your users are on our [original user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models), this doc will explain how you can move to the new models. 


## How free accounts switch

Have a free account? You currently have access to all of New Relic One. However, if you’d like to take advantage of the new pricing and user models, please [sign up for a new account](https://newrelic.com/signup/). [Learn what you get for free.](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/#free)

## How paying accounts migrate users to new model [#migrate-users]

If your users are on our [original user model](#user-models), you may have the ability to [migrate your users](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/user-migration/). Some organizations cannot yet do this. 

## How paying accounts switch to new pricing [#transition-paid]

If you're a paying account on our [original pricing model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models), you may only switch to New Relic One pricing if one of these is true: 

* You're on month-to-month billing.
* You're within 60 days of your subscription renewal. 

If one of those is true, you may have access to a self-serve pricing migration in the UI. To use that UI: 

1. To find the UI option: from the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#account-dropdown), click **Manage your plan** and then click **Plans and pricing** ([direct link](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJhY2NvdW50SWQiOjI0NDEyODYsIm5lcmRsZXRJZCI6ImNvbW1lcmNlLW5lcmRsZXRzLm5yLXNob3AtZW50cnkiLCJwYXRoIjoiL3BsYW5zLWFuZC1wcmljaW5nIiwibWlncmF0aW9uRWxpZ2libGUiOnRydWUsImFjY291bnROYW1lIjoiU3RyYWRvcyBMYWJzIn0=&platform[accountId]=)). If you don't see an **Unlock full platform access** UI, contact your account representative or ask a question in the [Explorers Hub](https://discuss.newrelic.com/). 
2. Consider the new billing factors. The New Relic One pricing model bills on data ingest and the number of full users. This means that you'll likely want to downgrade some of your full users to basic users. Keep reading to learn more about these considerations and ensure you won't run into billing surprises.  

### Downgrading full users to basic users

For [New Relic One pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/), your count of full users is one factor in billing. 

For organizations on our original pricing model, by default all users are full users, because full user count isn't a billing factor for that plan. So before you switch to the new pricing, you'll want to ensure that your users have the user type you want. To learn more about determining whether a user should be basic or full, see [User type](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model-understand-user-structure/#user-type). 

Ideally you should update your users before switching to the new pricing. But full user count is prorated, so if you update user type soon after switching to new pricing, billing impact will be minimal. 

How you'll review and update your users will differ depending on what user model you're on. If you're on our original pricing model, you're likely also on our original user model, but if you're not sure which you are on, see [Overview of user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models): 

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="original-model"
    title="Original user model: update users"
  >

To update your users, you must have admin permissions for managing users.

Steps for reviewing and updating your users: 
1. If your organization has multiple accounts, you'll want to make sure that you're aware of all child accounts and review all users on those accounts. It's possible for you to log into a sub-account and not see all your users. To see your associated accounts: from the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#account-dropdown), click **Account settings**, and look for associated accounts. 
2. To see a count of full users for an account: from the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#account-dropdown), click **View your usage** and see the **Users** chart. This shows **all** full users and, for some organizations, that will include users on child accounts. You'll want to be sure to update users for all accounts because users by default start out as billable full users.
3. To update your users: from that page click **Manage users** and edit the user type field. 

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="new-user-model"
    title="New Relic One user model: update users"
  >

To update your users, you must have admin permissions for managing users.

Steps for reviewing and updating your users: 

1. To see a count of full users for an account: from the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#account-dropdown), click **Administration** and click **Plan and usage**.
2. To update your users: from that page click **Manage users** and edit the user type field. 

  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Understand data ingest [#understand-usage] 

Your data ingest is one factor in [New Relic One pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/). To better understand your data ingest, here are some tips:

* From the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#account-dropdown), click **Manage your data**, then click **Data ingestion**. This page gives you an overview of your current data ingestion over the last 30 days. 
* If you want to see a view over a long time, go to the time picker on the right side of the page, where it says **Since 30 days ago** and select a different time range.
* To see more detail about ingest, scroll down on the data ingestion UI page to see an ingest breakdown.
* We currently don't offer the ability to drill down into every type of data ingest. To do more in-depth analysis, use NRQL queries. Here's a query example of breaking down [`Metric` data](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/understand-data/new-relic-data-types/#dimensional-metrics) by top 10 metric names. Note that some metrics are not data ingest metrics and are not billable. To run different analyses, you might also try faceting by `appName` or `Host`.
   ```
FROM Metric SELECT bytecountestimate()/10e8 as 'GB Estimate' 
SINCE 7 DAYS AGO 
FACET metricName LIMIT 10 TIMESERIES 1 day
   ```
  For more usage-related NRQL queries, see [Usage queries and alerts](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/usage-queries-alerts/).  
* We also have [a catalog of open source New Relic One apps](https://opensource.newrelic.com/nerdpacks/). One of these apps is [**Quickstarts**](https://opensource.newrelic.com/projects/newrelic/nr1-quickstarts), which lets you deploy pre-built dashboards. One of the dashboards gives you a visualization of your data ingest.

Commit message:

fix(user type): change 'full user' to 'full platform user'

src/content/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/switch-new-models.mdx, after:

---
title: Switch to new pricing model and new user model
metaDescription: "How to switch to New Relic's newer pricing model and new user model."
redirects: 
  - /docs/accounts/accounts-billing/switch-new-model
---

New Relic has recently implemented a new pricing model and user structure (read an [overview of changes](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/)). Our new models have many benefits: simpler billing, ability to add free users, simplicity of managing users, and more. 

If you're on our [original pricing model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#pricing-plans) or if your users are on our [original user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models), this doc will explain how you can move to the new models. 


## How free accounts switch

Have a free account? You currently have access to all of New Relic One. However, if you’d like to take advantage of the new pricing and user models, please [sign up for a new account](https://newrelic.com/signup/). [Learn what you get for free.](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/#free)

## How paying accounts migrate users to new model [#migrate-users]

If your users are on our [original user model](#user-models), you may have the ability to [migrate your users](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-users-roles/user-migration/). Some organizations cannot yet do this. 

## How paying accounts switch to new pricing [#transition-paid]

If you're a paying account on our [original pricing model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models), you may only switch to New Relic One pricing if one of these is true: 

* You're on month-to-month billing.
* You're within 60 days of your subscription renewal. 

If one of those is true, you may have access to a self-serve pricing migration in the UI. To use that UI: 

1. To find the UI option: from the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#account-dropdown), click **Manage your plan** and then click **Plans and pricing** ([direct link](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/nr1-core.settings?pane=eyJhY2NvdW50SWQiOjI0NDEyODYsIm5lcmRsZXRJZCI6ImNvbW1lcmNlLW5lcmRsZXRzLm5yLXNob3AtZW50cnkiLCJwYXRoIjoiL3BsYW5zLWFuZC1wcmljaW5nIiwibWlncmF0aW9uRWxpZ2libGUiOnRydWUsImFjY291bnROYW1lIjoiU3RyYWRvcyBMYWJzIn0=&platform[accountId]=)). If you don't see an **Unlock full platform access** UI, contact your account representative or ask a question in the [Explorers Hub](https://discuss.newrelic.com/). 
2. Consider the new billing factors. The New Relic One pricing model bills on data ingest and the number of full platform users. This means that you'll likely want to downgrade some of your full platform users to basic users. Keep reading to learn more about these considerations and ensure you won't run into billing surprises.  

### Downgrading full platform users to basic users

For [New Relic One pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/), your count of full platform users is one factor in billing. 

For organizations on our original pricing model, by default all users are full platform users, because full platform user count isn't a billing factor for that plan. So before you switch to the new pricing, you'll want to ensure that your users have the user type you want. To learn more about determining whether a user should be basic or full, see [User type](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-user-management/new-relic-one-user-model-understand-user-structure/#user-type). 

Ideally you should update your users before switching to the new pricing. But full platform user count is prorated, so if you update user type soon after switching to new pricing, billing impact will be minimal. 

How you'll review and update your users will differ depending on what user model you're on. If you're on our original pricing model, you're likely also on our original user model, but if you're not sure which you are on, see [Overview of user model](/docs/accounts/original-accounts-billing/original-product-based-pricing/overview-changes-pricing-user-model/#user-models): 

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="original-model"
    title="Original user model: update users"
  >

To update your users, you must have admin permissions for managing users.

Steps for reviewing and updating your users: 
1. If your organization has multiple accounts, you'll want to make sure that you're aware of all child accounts and review all users on those accounts. It's possible for you to log into a sub-account and not see all your users. To see your associated accounts: from the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#account-dropdown), click **Account settings**, and look for associated accounts. 
2. To see a count of full platform users for an account: from the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#account-dropdown), click **View your usage** and see the **Users** chart. This shows **all** full platform users and, for some organizations, that will include users on child accounts. You'll want to be sure to update users for all accounts because users by default start out as billable full platform users.
3. To update your users: from that page click **Manage users** and edit the user type field. 

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="new-user-model"
    title="New Relic One user model: update users"
  >

To update your users, you must have admin permissions for managing users.

Steps for reviewing and updating your users: 

1. To see a count of full platform users for an account: from the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#account-dropdown), click **Administration** and click **Plan and usage**.
2. To update your users: from that page click **Manage users** and edit the user type field. 

  </Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Understand data ingest [#understand-usage] 

Your data ingest is one factor in [New Relic One pricing](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/). To better understand your data ingest, here are some tips:

* From the [account dropdown](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/glossary/#account-dropdown), click **Manage your data**, then click **Data ingestion**. This page gives you an overview of your current data ingestion over the last 30 days. 
* If you want to see a view over a long time, go to the time picker on the right side of the page, where it says **Since 30 days ago** and select a different time range.
* To see more detail about ingest, scroll down on the data ingestion UI page to see an ingest breakdown.
* We currently don't offer the ability to drill down into every type of data ingest. To do more in-depth analysis, use NRQL queries. Here's a query example of breaking down [`Metric` data](/docs/telemetry-data-platform/understand-data/new-relic-data-types/#dimensional-metrics) by top 10 metric names. Note that some metrics are not data ingest metrics and are not billable. To run different analyses, you might also try faceting by `appName` or `Host`.
   ```
FROM Metric SELECT bytecountestimate()/10e8 as 'GB Estimate' 
SINCE 7 DAYS AGO 
FACET metricName LIMIT 10 TIMESERIES 1 day
   ```
  For more usage-related NRQL queries, see [Usage queries and alerts](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-users/usage-queries-alerts/).  
* We also have [a catalog of open source New Relic One apps](https://opensource.newrelic.com/nerdpacks/). One of these apps is [**Quickstarts**](https://opensource.newrelic.com/projects/newrelic/nr1-quickstarts), which lets you deploy pre-built dashboards. One of the dashboards gives you a visualization of your data ingest.
