src/content/docs/workflow-automation/setup-and-configuration/actions-catalog/utils/script-run.mdx, before:

---
title: "Auth JWT actions"
tags:
  - workflow automation
  - workflow
  - workflow automation actions
  - Auth actions
  - Auth JWT actions
metaDescription: "A list of available auth jwt actions in the actions catalog for workflow definitions"
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

<Callout title="preview">
  We're still working on this feature, but we'd love for you to try it out!

  This feature is currently provided as part of a preview program pursuant to our [pre-release policies](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/new-relic-pre-release-policy).
</Callout>

This page provides a comprehensive reference for authentication actions available in the workflow automation actions catalog. These actions enable you to create and manage JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for secure authentication in your workflows.

## Run a script [#script-run]

    Execute a python script and returns the response to a workflow.

    <Tabs>
      <TabsBar>
        <TabsBarItem id="scriptruninputs">
          Inputs
        </TabsBarItem>
    
        <TabsBarItem id="scriptrunoutputs">
          Outputs
        </TabsBarItem>
    
        <TabsBarItem id="scriptrunexample">
          Example
        </TabsBarItem>
      </TabsBar>
    
      <TabsPages>
        <TabsPageItem id="scriptruninputs">
        <table>
            <thead>
                <tr>
                  <th>Input Field</th>
                  <th>Optionality</th>
                  <th>Type</th>
                  <th>Description</th>
                  <th>Example</th>
              </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <tr>
                    <td>**script**</td>
                    <td>Required</td>
                    <td>String</td>
                    <td>Any data transformation script </td>
                    <td>
```yaml
script: |
  print("Hello, World!")
```
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>**runtime**</td>
                    <td>Required</td>
                    <td>Enum</td>
                    <td>Run time version of script</td>
                    <td>`PYTHON_3_13`</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>**parameters**</td>
                    <td>Optional</td>
                    <td>List</td>
                    <td>list of parameters to be used in script</td>
                    <td>`parameters: ["--a", "10", "--b", "5"]`</td>
                </tr>
            </tbody>
          </table>
        </TabsPageItem>

        <TabsPageItem id="scriptrunoutputs">
        <table>
          <thead>
              <tr>
                  <th>Output Field</th>
                  <th>Datatype</th>
                  <th>Examples</th>
              </tr>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
              <tr>
                  <td>**success**</td>
                  <td>Boolean</td>
                  <td>`true/false`</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                  <td>**payload**</td>
                  <td>Object</td>
                  <td>`"sessionId": "7fa97f26-3791-492e-a39b-53793163dfb9"`</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                  <td>**errorMessage**</td>
                  <td>String</td>
                  <td>`parsing error at line 9"`</td>
              </tr>
          </tbody>
        </table>
          </TabsPageItem>

          <TabsPageItem id="scriptrunexample">
            <table>
              <thead>
                  <tr>
                      <th>Example</th>
                  </tr>
              </thead>
              <tbody>
                  <tr>
                      <td>
```yaml
name: script-workflow

steps:
  - name: runScript
    type: action
    action: script.run
    version: 1
    inputs:
      script: |
        import json
        import argparse

        p = argparse.ArgumentParser()
        p.add_argument("--a", type=int, required=True)
        p.add_argument("--b", type=int, required=True)
        args = p.parse_args()
        # Data transformation: output original, squared, and sum
        result = {
            "original": {"a": args.a, "b": args.b},
            "transformed": {"a_squared": args.a ** 2, "b_squared": args.b ** 2},
            "sum": args.a + args.b
        }
        print(json.dumps(result))
      parameters: ["--a", "10", "--b", "5"]
      runtime: PYTHON_3_13
  - name: logOutput
    type: action
    action: newrelic.ingest.sendLogs
    version: 1
    inputs:
      logs:
        - message: "Hello from script testing : ${{ .steps.runScript.outputs.payload  }}"
```
                      </td>
                  </tr>
              </tbody>
            </table>
          </TabsPageItem>
        </TabsPages>
      </Tabs>

## What script.run can do

### Supported python version

- PYTHON_3_13 runtime with full language features

### Allowed imports

```yaml
"python-dateutil",
"simplejson",
"re",
"math",
"decimal",
"json",
"datetime",
"collections",
"itertools",
"functools",
"operator",
"string",
"argparse"
```

### Data handling

  - Parse and transform JSON data structures
  - Process complex strings and perform text manipulation
  - Format output as tables, markdown, or structured data

### Parameter Ppssing

  - Pass simple values via command-line arguments with argparse

## What script.run cannot do

### Restricted imports

  - `base64` - Not allowed for security reasons
  - `sys` - Not allowed for security reasons
  - `os` - System operations restricted
  - Most third-party libraries not included in Python 3.13 stdlib

### Parameter limitations

  - Cannot pass complex JSON as command-line parameters (causes Unsafe script argument error)
  - Cannot pass strings with special characters via parameters

### Network/External access

  - No network calls or external API access
  - No file system access outside script execution

Commit message:

Added the Azure Execute actions catalog

src/content/docs/workflow-automation/setup-and-configuration/actions-catalog/utils/script-run.mdx, after:

---
title: "Script run action"
tags:
  - workflow automation
  - workflow
  - workflow automation actions
  - Utils actions
  - Script actions
metaDescription: "Execute Python scripts in workflow automation to transform data and perform custom operations"
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

<Callout title="preview">
  We're still working on this feature, but we'd love for you to try it out!

  This feature is currently provided as part of a preview program pursuant to our [pre-release policies](/docs/licenses/license-information/referenced-policies/new-relic-pre-release-policy).
</Callout>

This page provides a comprehensive reference for the script.run action available in the workflow automation actions catalog. This action enables you to execute Python scripts within your workflows for data transformation, processing, and custom operations.

## Run a script [#script-run]

    Execute a python script and returns the response to a workflow.

    <Tabs>
      <TabsBar>
        <TabsBarItem id="scriptruninputs">
          Inputs
        </TabsBarItem>
    
        <TabsBarItem id="scriptrunoutputs">
          Outputs
        </TabsBarItem>
    
        <TabsBarItem id="scriptrunexample">
          Example
        </TabsBarItem>
      </TabsBar>
    
      <TabsPages>
        <TabsPageItem id="scriptruninputs">
        <table>
            <thead>
                <tr>
                  <th>Input Field</th>
                  <th>Optionality</th>
                  <th>Type</th>
                  <th>Description</th>
                  <th>Example</th>
              </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <tr>
                    <td>**script**</td>
                    <td>Required</td>
                    <td>String</td>
                    <td>Any data transformation script </td>
                    <td>
```yaml
script: |
  print("Hello, World!")
```
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>**runtime**</td>
                    <td>Required</td>
                    <td>Enum</td>
                    <td>Run time version of script</td>
                    <td>`PYTHON_3_13`</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>**parameters**</td>
                    <td>Optional</td>
                    <td>List</td>
                    <td>list of parameters to be used in script</td>
                    <td>`parameters: ["--a", "10", "--b", "5"]`</td>
                </tr>
            </tbody>
          </table>
        </TabsPageItem>

        <TabsPageItem id="scriptrunoutputs">
        <table>
          <thead>
              <tr>
                  <th>Output Field</th>
                  <th>Datatype</th>
                  <th>Examples</th>
              </tr>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
              <tr>
                  <td>**success**</td>
                  <td>Boolean</td>
                  <td>`true/false`</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                  <td>**payload**</td>
                  <td>Object</td>
                  <td>`"sessionId": "7fa97f26-3791-492e-a39b-53793163dfb9"`</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                  <td>**errorMessage**</td>
                  <td>String</td>
                  <td>`parsing error at line 9"`</td>
              </tr>
          </tbody>
        </table>
          </TabsPageItem>

          <TabsPageItem id="scriptrunexample">
            <table>
              <thead>
                  <tr>
                      <th>Example</th>
                  </tr>
              </thead>
              <tbody>
                  <tr>
                      <td>
```yaml
name: script-workflow

steps:
  - name: runScript
    type: action
    action: script.run
    version: 1
    inputs:
      script: |
        import json
        import argparse

        p = argparse.ArgumentParser()
        p.add_argument("--a", type=int, required=True)
        p.add_argument("--b", type=int, required=True)
        args = p.parse_args()
        # Data transformation: output original, squared, and sum
        result = {
            "original": {"a": args.a, "b": args.b},
            "transformed": {"a_squared": args.a ** 2, "b_squared": args.b ** 2},
            "sum": args.a + args.b
        }
        print(json.dumps(result))
      parameters: ["--a", "10", "--b", "5"]
      runtime: PYTHON_3_13
  - name: logOutput
    type: action
    action: newrelic.ingest.sendLogs
    version: 1
    inputs:
      logs:
        - message: "Hello from script testing : ${{ .steps.runScript.outputs.payload  }}"
```
                      </td>
                  </tr>
              </tbody>
            </table>
          </TabsPageItem>
        </TabsPages>
      </Tabs>

## What script.run can do

### Supported python version

- PYTHON_3_13 runtime with full language features

### Allowed imports

```yaml
"python-dateutil",
"simplejson",
"re",
"math",
"decimal",
"json",
"datetime",
"collections",
"itertools",
"functools",
"operator",
"string",
"argparse"
```

### Data handling

  - Parse and transform JSON data structures
  - Process complex strings and perform text manipulation
  - Format output as tables, markdown, or structured data

### Parameter Passing

  - Pass simple values via command-line arguments with argparse

## What script.run cannot do

### Restricted imports

  - `base64` - Not allowed for security reasons
  - `sys` - Not allowed for security reasons
  - `os` - System operations restricted
  - Most third-party libraries not included in Python 3.13 stdlib

### Parameter limitations

  - Cannot pass complex JSON as command-line parameters (causes Unsafe script argument error)
  - Cannot pass strings with special characters via parameters

### Network/External access

  - No network calls or external API access
  - No file system access outside script execution
